A few years ago, Peter Skillman here, at TED, a design game -- a design competition.
The marshmallow-challenge.
The idea is pretty simple idea is pretty simple: Gres of a such of building twintimate piece of spaghetti, a meter carpe, a meter carpon and a marshmallow.
The marshmallow to up.
And, although it sounds of sound, it turns out that reminds of people to work very quickly together to work together very quickly together very quickly --
And because I found this an interesting idea I found it in a design idea I decided to take it in a design design workshop.
And it was a big success.
Since then, I have this exercise in about 70 design workshops around the world with students, designers and architects and architects, and even with Fortune 50-companies.
And this exercises gives us deep insights in how people work together, and I want to share with you to share with you.
Normally, is the first step that people are preparing on the causes that people are preparing on the cause.
They talk about it, they talk about it, and they have to look at it, play masplay --
Then they go planns, organizing.
They sketches and sketches and sketches
The biggest of the time they build bigger building the spaghetti.
And at the end of time almost to the time is taking someone the marshmallow him to put it careful up on the top, do a step back and ... Actually, a step back and ... Actually, someone like this.
They were amazing their work.
But what really happens -- most of the tours in a "tat" changes in a oh oh oh," because the weight of the marshmallow the whole building.
Bepal people have more of those "oh oh oh moments than others.
And what of the worst are only graded, with a MBA.
They love, they play fallers, and they make it very damn to build up and they make it builds very damn to work --
And then of course, there are teams that are a lot more "task building.
And with the best of them were graded, they graduate colors.
That's a little impressive.
And Peter tells us that they make not just the highest of the most interesting.
So what you would you be wondering, is: How can this? Why? What do that you can do this colorderers?
Peters answer is: "None of the children spills are the boss of the Spaghetti BV." Jist.
They don't get a time with powers game playing.
But there's another reason.
And that is that economists and trained to find the only right solution.
And then they go and do it --
But what happens when they explain the marshmallow up to the marshmallow is to have time. And thth?
It's a disaster.
Sounds of know?
What little little bit of the things dozen --
is that they begin to the marshmallow to the marshmallow it.
They build prototypes, and new prototype,
and the marshmallow up to the marshmallow to repair and repair prototypes.
And the basis of a collaboration as the basis of a collaboration as the basis of a iterative process.
And if you have a version of the children getting a fact about what is not working and what not works.
So the building of prototypes is very important.
But let's see how different teams.
The average for most people is about 50 cket --
Here's the economists of it, it's not a lot of the lawyers, but not much better.
Colders, better than most of the adults.
Who does it do past?
Architects and engineers, happy.
The highest building that I was a high.
And why? Because they understand triangle, and extincite medical structures are the key to build stable.
CEOs, something better than average.
But now the interesting thing is the interesting thing that if you put a secretared in the team they get pieces of the team of team they getting pieces of the team of the team of the team of team is at the team of the team of team they get pieces better.
Resainy novel and thinking, "those are going to win the winn."
And you can see that from the one?
Because they're good at support to support it.
They have managed the process.
And every team that is good regulars and attention for the work will come to the restones of that team is good come.
Gespecialized and support skills together to be successful.
If you are normally 10 teams this will have a city to have a city of building the six a city.
And I tried something interesting.
I thought, we make it a little exciting.
So I walk to go out and winning 10,000 dollars on the winning team.
And what do you think these designs dethinking?
What happened is what happened?
It's next thing,
No was a team had a city building.
A torent of it, for example, a totally centimeter, was enough to win the price to win the price.
Interestingly that a higher insists great consequences of it.
We repetration with the same students with the same students.
And what do you think that happened to do?
So now they understand the use of prototypes.
And this team was changed the worst team in one of the exist.
They made the highest building in the least time.
So that's a good lesson for us the nature of rewards and success.
You might you wonder, why you would someone would like to spend time to write a marshmallow-challenge?
The reason is, I work with digital tools and processes and processes to help teams in building autools and visual effects.
And the marshmallow-challenge helps them to get the hidden tour.
Want, you know, every project has his own marshmallow, right?
The challenge of a parted experience, a common language, a common language, a semental institution to make the best prototype.
And so that is the value of this is so simple exercise exercise exercise
And for who are interested in which is going to marshmallowed to marshmallow.com.
And on this blog you can see how to build the mashmallows to build the mashmallows to build the mashmallows.
There are stac-stack of step-stacks.
There are examples of how people all around the world tricks and adapting.
There are also global records.
And the fundamental lessis, I think that design is really a contactsport.
And it eyed, the inside of all our senses, and that we feel very best thinking and executions for the challenge that is to us.
And sometimes a little prototype of this experience is a supply to be enough to change in a "take-moment in a "take-moment in a "tagone.
And that makes a big difference.
Thank you very much.
Let us suppose that we have a great machine, a great machine, a great machine, a great machine, a very great machine, a while machine.
And everybody to this.
You can go and go and forward in time, but not here and it doesn't stay and now.
I am legged what you would choose you choose -- because I have all this question to all the friends and they want to all to reach all the friends and all of these things are all all of these things that you would all be shoot and all of these things that I have been ashed and they want to all this question to all the friends of all these kindds of things that you would choose all of you would choose all these question for all of
They all want to go back to time before cars or Twitter or "American Idol,"
I don't know.
I'm convinced that there is a certain hang to nostalgion, to wish.
And I can come up with that.
But I don't hear it, I have to say,
I don't want to remember and not because I'm so adventured -- but it's possibilities -- but it's possibilities of this planet.
They're not going to go forward.
So I also want to go in the machine and I want to forward in time.
We live in the great time on this planet on this planet on the planet on the planet on this planet, but also want to health, mobility, cances, reducation of disease.
Never was a time as this.
My trancovered all around the 60.
My grandparents have been seeing 70.
And my parents are already at 80.
So I can do it with them a piece in the 90 of it.
But it's not going to talk about us.
There is a lot more on the game.
A child that today in New Delhi is born has a life expectation to that of the richest man in the world 100 years.
Think about that. That's an incredibly fact.
And why is that true?
The smallpox. The smallpox have been reaching the planet.
They had an impact on the demography of this world bigger than that of war
But they are not exist to be anymore. They're gone.
We have it over. We have them over.
In the wealth world existence, which is a generation of millions of people threatened as well.
Difteria, childhood --
anyone here knows what that was?
Inentings, modern medicine our opportunities to prevent billions of food method, are all triumphs of the scientific method.
And for me, the scientific method, the scientific method, and it doesn't work, and it doesn't work, and not leave indionals, one of the largest consideration of humanity.
That's the good news.
But sptiely enough, that is the only good news because there are some other problems, they were still used to be a couple of other problems, and one of them is that despite all our amazingly, there are still a billion people hungry to this world, every day.
Their number of number of it takes it fast.
And not just that, we have a imagination to refront, to refrent this world very much to dirty extend to be able to divil.
Drinkable water, agricultural rainforests, oil, and they're disappear, and if we are going to be able to work out of this mission of this misery adicated away.
The question is this: Can we think of that? I think of it.
I think it's clearly that we are able to be able to make food for billions without the country without the country without the country we live live in the country we live in life to extend to make life the country that we are able to make food for billions of food for billions of food for billions of food for billions of food for billions of food for billions of food for billions of food for
I think we can imagine this world of energy form that doesn't help it in the destruction that it can't help it in the destruction of energy.
I believe that one, no, that's not a wish.
But now that that I wake the night of the things that I wake up at night, one of the things that I walk up in the night of things that I wake up at night.
And ever we have been so dependent on scientific advancement, and we never have been able to make use as we can be able to make use as we can can be able to make use that.
We are on the threshort of the most amazing advancement on all sorts of area.
And yet, I really think we have to do hundreds of years, say, 300 years, you have to go back to the time of the United to find a time we take away to progress so against the re-re-re-new-to-area, and more areas of the region of the Untimate and more areas of the regions,
People are hanging their faith with such heart stoight to that it is impossible to free them of it.
And listeners, everyone has right on his own people; everyone has the right on a own opinion, but you know where you have no reason you know where you have no reason you have no reason for a right?
You don't have a right on your own facts. No, that you don't have that have you don't.
And I did a while about it to realize me.
A teental years ago I wrote a story about inentions for "The New Yorker," a short story.
I was amazing contradictive to invent the most effective measured for the public health in history.
I didn't know what I do is just write a story about it, and I wrote it and go and go and fur.
I wrote a story about genetic ways of genetic food.
You know, but worse this again.
People were crazy.
So I wrote there just a story of that, and I couldn't understand why people found this food, why people found this food, why they thought that molecules in a target, rather than a change, rather than a single slightly retremendous point, a retremendous extension.
But, you know, I do what I do. I wrote a story and went to the order of the day. I'm now a journalist; we are going to eat the time, we are eating it and that's that once and that's that.
But these stories were refrigerate, I couldn't make it be able to do why, but eventually it was going to be able to be able to do why, but eventually
And because that was fanatics that made me in fact, which made me was not fanatics at all the way of the fanatics.
They were fatsoently good underlies of fatsoon.
You know, not like the people in this room.
And it was just that what didisturbs me so ...
but then I thought, you know, let's be a very honest, we are at a time in this world that we don't have the same regular requirement,
We speak two-like this.
We speak ironically about the engineers.
"Peopegan."
OK, there are reasons and I think that we know it.
We have lost the belief institutions in the science and then in science and in the science and not a reason not a reason not a reason not reason not a reason not reason not a reason not reason not a reason not reason not a reason not a reason not reason not a reason not a reason not a reason not a reason not a reason not reason not reason.
You just have to fall some names and you have to understand it.
Tsjernobyl, Bhopal, the Challenger, Viox, mass destruction of weapons, not a good spots of ponsks ...
I mean you can do it yourself.
There are problems and problems with those people that we thought they always had to be right,
So Wees skeptical.
Itl questions, questions, questions, and evidence nothing to do is not going to just like that.
But now is that if you get evidence, you have to address them and we don't take it and we are not so good at that.
And the reason I can say that is that we can now be in a unprecedented flew and we hope that flew so flew that flew up to web.
About 12 years back was an aware of an aware that an amazing between the epidemic of autism and the inention of autism and the inention of carrying and red dehundred and red dehunt the ind epidemic and the inention of the epidemic and the inention of the epidemic and the inention of the pidemic, which was an aware of an awed story that
Again the time of the time.
Hopoping studies were invented to go or after that,
And that had to do it was a severe severe secur.
The data came up with the data came up with it.
They were found in the United States, in England, in England, in Canada, and all the same result: no connection: no connection: no connection: no conband, not in the United States, in Canada, and they were in Canada,
But it doesn't do it does not do it because we don't do it because we believe what we think about anecdotes, we believe what we think and what we think and what we think about and what we really think about what we think about and feel
We can't have a lot of papers a lot of papers of a official government that data and I can come up with that, and I can come up with that, and I think we all can get that.
But you know what?
The consequences were disaster, disaster, and the fact of this fact: The United States are one of the world where the number of inentions in the world where the number of inenties in the world where the number of inents in the world where the number of inents were going to be able to copaxies.
That's a scancy, and we should be shaming.
it's a terrible.
What is going to do with us that we could deal with that we could deal with that?
Now, I understand it. I understand it. I understand it.
Who is going to get mary?
Do anyone of this audience ever seeing in the audience of may?
Combs don't of.
And here are not even even though it happened last year 160,000 times in the world.
That's a lot of deaths by marins, 20 per hour.
But because it doesn't happen to be able to read the inachtacks, and people like Jenny McCarthy McCarthy McCarthy and undevice in exception as the Oprah and Larry Live Larry King Live Larry King Live Live Live Live Carthy Live Larry King Live here and Live to spive the residered by
And they can do that because they can't make any distincluding between causes and accidents of conditions.
They don't understand that these things seem to be the practically the practical never really really practical.
And that's something that we need to learn and we have to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn
This guy was a hero -- Jonas Salk.
He was writing us from one of our worst things.
No fear more, no death fight, you know, Polio, pood, away.
And that guy in the middle, already of the middle,
It's called Paul Offit.
He developed a vaccine against the rotavirus together with some other people.
It saved the lives of about 400,000 children in the third world.
All right, right?
Well, it's good -- except that Paul around the predictor of the predictor and how valuable they are.
and people should be able to keep with it to hold you to hold you.
And he says, "Doe.
So Paul is a terror.
If he lots of public towards a public spring of the conscious waits.
He gets the home phone calls because there are people who are price to say that they know where his children are walking out where his children are walking out where his children are walking out where his children are school.
And why? Because Paul has developed a vaccine.
I don't have to say, but vaccines are ununfree.
Take them the disease, and the disease, and that's what happens to be going to happen and that's what happens to be to happen and is what happening is to happen and the disease,
We have maror. We have maybed back in this country in this country in this country in this country in this country in this country in this country in this country
And it is still getting it again, soon.
And they're not going to be death,
What with polio? That's why not?
A former measured measured me some weeks and said that they found me some of the surface that they found me a little bit of the recently,
No one has ever said that.
She didn't leave her child at the polion.
In no case.
Good.
Why? Because we don't have a polio more. And you know what?
Yesterday, not got polio here.
But, who knows, who knows, maybe someone on an airplane in Lagos, and he fly flyh.
Within a few hours a couple of hours and come to Long Beach, where he's going to be on one of that fantastic TED dinners.
And he didn't realize that he decided to a paralyzed amming disease, and we don't know it because that's going to be that.
That's the planet that we live in. There is no song of loved.
We love inpaths in the liums. And we love it.
Do everyone else of the morning vitamients of swallowed to be swell?
Echinacea, a little antioxidant to the day by the day?
I know it because the Americans are doing it every day.
They smarch, they use alternative drugs, and they don't do how often we discovered that they are truth, they are truth,
The data is always the data always re-point data to re-re-re-re-point data
They are never making your urine. And they never practical anymore.
OK if you want to spend 28 billion dollars for darker urine, Dan is that just like this.
Donek urine. Doncer.
Why do we do that? Why do we do that? I understand it, we hate Big Pma.
We hate the government. We trust that politics.
That must be health provision of the provisions of big.
They're that for millions of our agriculture.
They're amazing harrockings and even conclude to those of us that they can perpermittered to be permitting it.
So we are going to walk away from the government?
We are jumping in the poor of Big Placebo.
Da's great. I love Big Placebo.
But, you know, this is very because the whole dog is rommel and we give billions of dollars on it.
I brought a few of those things that are stuff here.
Ginkgo, chinacea, chiney, cover, acai, I don't know what that is, but we give you some billions of dollars on it, all cheat.
And you know what? If I tell this game people against me, and they say, "What can you shell? Let the people shell? Let the people do? Let the people do? Let the people do.
They feel good at them."
And you know what? You're wrong.
Because it can't be able to share me whether the secretary of health service that says, "HI'm not going to give you a consequence, "Hh, I'm not going to give me mammographs.
or a cancer curban salver that will be patients with coffee that patients to cover the coffeer --
If you start to replace with evidence and science by belief and magic than finally you want to get to be true.
Then you get in the South Africa of Thabo Mbeki.
He's responsible for the death of 400,000 of his people by confront, and quoil and quoil, and quote and quote the antiviral resources that can be death from AIDS
Hundreds of thousands of notor killed in a country that had been been supplied by this disease.
Come not tell me that these things don't have a result of not consequences.
They have them alway. They have them alway. They have them alway.
Now the most thought, the most attempted epidemic in which we are now the absurd between the ensurde between genetic engineered food and the organic elite and the organic elite --
It's an idiot debat. It has to stop it.
It's about metaphor.
It's ideology, not -- it's an ideology,
Everything we eat, every shore relate, every sprying, every single letopy, every brushes spry, every single shape,
And if you think that were in the physics" were not a mandars of paradis"
There was no watermeloes.
Even Crists bombs. They all come from us.
We created them in the last 111,000 years.
Some of those products and some of those products and others don't have it.
We found us what we were not instone.
Now we can do the same in a more tiny way.
And, sure, there are risks.
But we can produce vitamine vitamine and can live without millions of lions and longer living for millions of lions and longer living millions of lions and longer lions and longer lions and longer living for a lions and longer living for a lions and longer
You don't want to do it?
I don't have to say, that I don't understand it.
We don't want to be genetic food
And why?
Well, this is the whole time. You hear the whole time.
We don't like companies that take patents of companies that are taking things.
We don't want to be that companies the ownership of the own.
And you know what I response?
You have a little bit about it. Let's do something about it.
It's true. It's true. It's true.
It has nothing to do with science.
This is going to lawws, patents.
Science is not a society.
No country.
Even idea; it's a process.
It's a process, and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't work and sometimes it doesn't work and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't work and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't work and sometimes it doesn't work.
But the idea that we have to store the science to be able to do her because we really really worked for his works for the way to be really conclude and millions of people to get to some of the well-well.
You know, the next 50 years, we will take to 70 percent we need more food than today.
70 percent.
This graph the graph of the investment in Africa for the last 30 years.
Scandalig. Schandaly.
They really need it to remember it.
And the reason? Genetically ways of food.
We don't want people to want people not want to get any minoriginal food as cassave for example,
Cassave is the daily of a half billion people's daily human day; it looks like what like potato potato of the daily of the daily of the daily of a half billion people; it looks like a half billion people; it seems to be a
It has only a lot of calories. Wardls. Wardls.
It contains don't have foods like proteins, and scientists like proteins, and scientists are doing something about that.
So that people can eat it.
They wouldn't be heard, and they know what?
It would be fine a haut, it would be a haut, but it would be fine to be fine there.
And everything I say is this: Why are we contradict it?
I mean, let's ask that you know, why are we contradict it?
Because we don't want to shoot with gen?
This is going to be survival responds to make with chemicals.
And not with our rewards of the hormones, we don't have any gone to meer, better and specialer.
It's not about Rice Krispies, it's going to keep people in life.
and it's about it to understand what that wants to say.
Because you know what?
If we don't do it and go through as we are several to be nothing that we don't want to be nothing to be nothing to be customized colonialism.
I don't think I think that I don't think better to describe this better.
It's self-oxous, and we have to do something to be intrue, and we really have to do something about it.
So after this increases making extensible extensible to say, "You might want to say, "You want to say, "You want to go through this recent?"
Absolutely I want to re.
Now it's still in the hot of the hot of the hot of the crowd.
We can do that time machine for everything we want to use it.
We can bring them to a future that we want to do, and we also bring them to where we want to go.
We have to go with these excitements and we need to keep thinking but if we step into it, and we have to stay that we have done it in and forward that we have done.
I know we can do it, and that is, for what I do is to know.
Thank you.
Thank you.
A columnist of the Los Angeles Times...
Steve Lopez, walking on a day.
by the center of Los Angeles...
when he heard beautiful music
And it came from a guy.
A black man.
Charmant, loses catching home.
HIs played on a violin a violin the violin of two strices.
I tell you a lot of you all know about you all know?
because the columns of Steve Steve shaped the basic ...
for a book that a film that was made a film that was made it.
Robert Downey Jr. plays the role of Steve Lopez.
and Jamie Fox-x-aniel Anthaniel Anthaniel Anthony Ayers'
the classic wooled conbassist...
that are a lot of career career had to determine ...
because he was suffering schizophrenia.
Nathaniel stop the Juilliardconservatorium, stortiny
and 30 years later he swwall of the crazy --
by the poorest streets of Los Angeles.
You should read Steve's book Steve's book or the film.
Not just for the beautiful band...
that was the two men,
But also to see which role music played --
a instrumental roll, if I say that this is so magic.
to get Nathaniel of the street of the street
I met Ayers in 2008.
two years ago, in a Disney-concertlement.
He had been luced to a execution of the 1st and 4th symphony of Beethoven,
and the backstage and backstage and I was for.
He talked to a jovial and social ways.
over Yo-Ma and Hillary Clinton.
HId said that the Dodgers never the World Series would never get the World Series.
All of a hard of a hard violin-fiddle --
in the last part of the fourth symphony of Beethod.
We spoke about music. Later I got a mail of Steve-...
that Nathaniel that Nathaniel of wanted to have a violine.
You have to know that Nathaniel don't want to be treated treat.
And when he was treated treated shock therapies ...
chlorpromazine and handboobooboobooboobook.
and that has drawn for his lifetime.
The result is that he is that he now,
numbers of shifrenia.
Actually, the worst attacks.
and suddenly it --
and he disappears for days,
He sworks on the street --
and living that narity and the worder in his heads,
that follow down at the time.
Nathaniel was in such such a contracted state
And then we started to do with our first lesson
He had a manical gue in their eyes.
He was disappear.
He talked about ...
invisible demons and smok...
and someone who wanted to be very, and someone who wanted to be very,
I was scary.
Not for myself, I was scared ...
I would cut him to cover him.
that he would be awed in such a attackaged --
and I would be relationship with the violin the violin --
If I started talking about showed --
and arpeggios and other examples --
from what you learn to teaches.
So I started playing playing it.
I played the first part of the violal concert of Beethod.
And as I played ...
I saw a clearly changed --
in the eyes of Nathanile.
It was as if a invisible drug was an invisible medicine was working his work.
A chemical response for which my play ...
the catalyz.
The manical excitement of Nathaniels.
changed in understanding.
In the distily curiosity and boration.
If he wonder a wonder he was a packaged on --
and started playing on the crowd.
Bepal fragments of fiddle concerten...
I had to deal with the Mendelssohness,
Tchaikovsy, Sibelib.
We started talking about music -- Bach...
Beethoves and Brahma,
Bruckner, all Bs.
From Barton to Esa-Pekka Salonen.
I saw in that he didn't all ...
a encyclopedic musical musical knowledge,
but he was personally hunted by that music.
He talked about the same passion,
and the same understanding as I and my colleagues ...
from the Los Angeles Philharmonic.
And by making music and talk about music and talking about music --
was this guy changed ...
of the paranoid male,
that judge of the strates,
from Los Angeles was come ...
in a charman,
brilliant classically written music.
Music gene: Music changes us.
For Nathaniel is music a healthy mind.
And by music he can he can be a thought,
and daries --
through his fantasy and creativities ...
in reality.
And that is how it seems to be like that.
and have been troubled attacks.
I saw in that that the essentially art.
That's why we make music is why we make music
We all take something that are in all of us --
in our core.
Our emotions.
And that we have our artistic learning ...
And then our crativity that can be emotions to reality.
The reality of that expression:
and reaches all of us.
We are resection, inspired and multiple
Nathaniels.
And it was a group of music back.
The saving force of music was brought him back ...
in a family of musicians
that he was understood --
These are talents talents ...
and that him respected.
I'll keep always covered music with Nathanile.
Or it now Walt Disney Concert Hall is ...
or on the street or on the street me ...
why I have become musician --
Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Robert Gupta.
I want to play something that I have separated cellesss.
Forget a little bit of me.
I'm Jane McGonigal. I'm a game designer.
And 10 years I make a 10 years I make games.
And my purpose for the next decades to make it easy to save the world in real life as it is in games.
Now, I have a plan, and that plan is that plan to be more people, you all including more time to spend more time to spend more time to spend more time to spend more time to spend more time to the greater and better games.
And at this moment we play three billion hours a week online games.
Some of you probably think of probably, "That's a lot of time to play games to play games to play games to play games to play games to play."
Maybe a lot of time, maybe a lot of time that we have to be so much important problems that should be solving to solve.
But actually, I think my research at the Institute For the Toe, that the opposite is the opposite where is the opposite of the U.D.
Three billion hours a week for hours a week of the world's major problems.
More you -- I believe that if we want to survive the next century on this planet, that we have to be incredibly increase.
I have calculated that we need in total 21 billion hours a week.
That's probably a strange idea, so I'm going to leave it again, I'll let it still let it include to be able to make it up.
If we want problems to solve problems like hungry, climate change, global conflict, worldwide, I believe that we have to try to try to be reducial at least 21 billion hours games to play the end of the next decades. No.
This is the reason. This picture was pretty good saming together that games are so important for the future survive of humanity.
This is a portrait through a photograph, Phil Tolean.
He wanted to read the emotion of the gather.
So he put a camera for gamers while they play.
And this is a classical emotion to the games.
Now, if you're not a gamber, you probably a little nuances in this picture.
You probably see the sense of pressure, a little fear, but also intense concentration, a deep focus to solve a very difficult problem.
If you're a gamb, you will have a few nuances here a few nuances of a cell around the eyes and mouth is a sign of optimism.
The wishs cbraws to be a sign of surprise.
This is a gamber that is a gamb, a little hot of something called an epic stor."
Ah, you know that. OK, good.
So we have a few gamers of this games of gamers in the way.
A "epic win" is an outcome, which is so incredibly positive, that you didn't know that it was possible to you reach.
It was almost not to imagine.
And when you are surprised to discover what you really art. That's an epic. That's an wood."
This is a gamber on the point of an epic win."
And this is the face that we have to see on millions of problem solving out of the world, while we try to take the next century of the next century of the next century.
The face of someone who are expectations in the point is a "epic wind" --
But you have been seen this face in the daily face in the daily of the daily of trouble problems.
This is what I call "I No God in the Leven" --
And this is I actually do it does. Can you can see it? Yeah.
This is I am the "I No God in the Leven" --
This is a piece graffiti in my old neighborhoot in Berkeley, California, where I did my PhD in games than in the real life.
And this is a problem that have a lot of gamers.
We don't feel that we are not just good at the reality as we are in games are in the games that we are in games are in reality as we are in the reality as we are in games that we are in the reality as we are in games that we are in the reality as we are games in reality as we are in games that we are in games are not just good in the reality as we are in games that we are not a good at the reality as we are in games that we are not just good at the reality as we are in games as good as good
And I mean with good not just successful, even though that there is part of it.
We are reachieve more in games. But I mean, but I mean but I mean with good as well-motivate to do something.
And when we are in a game world I believe that most of us the best version of our best version of our best version of our best version of our own best.
the most likely to stay as long as it needed to stay for a crime to stay after a crilucky.
And if we have a crime crip, when we have a crime of the cribs are with hinders, we don't feel so on.
We feel overwhelming our overwhelming our overwhelming our overwhelming.
We feel fearing of depressed maybe depressed or cynical.
We never have that feelings as we play games as we play games
they just don't exist in games.
So that's what I wanted to study when I was a student when I was a student.
What part of games is it impossible that we can't feel anything as if we can't reach everything else as if we can't achieve everything.
How can we take that feelings of games and remains, and it on the real world to do in the real world of the real world
So I looked games like Word or Warcraft, that really the ideal craft, that is the ideal cooperative environment to solve problems.
And I started to remarkable things that are able to notice that could be able to make an online world's online world.
The first thing I noticed is that every time you get to one of those online games are in one of those online games that you have a global different characters that you like to add a world-saving mission mission that you like to add a world-saving mission mission of the crazy that you would like to be able to confidence a global of that you like to addness.
But not just a mission, a mission, a mission that is represented to your level in the game. Just in the game. Just you,
So, you can do it.
They never give you a challenge that you can't attackaged you to do a challenge that you can't attention.
But it's the extremely of your opportunity. So you have to try hard. So you have to try hard.
But there's no workledness in World of Warcraft.
You can't be somewhere you can set anywhere.
There is always something specific, and important, and it's going to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done to be done anything in a specific to be done to be done
And there are also very much contributgers.
Every place where you go, there are hundreds of thousands of people who are willing to help your epic mission to help your epic mission mission to bring your epic mission mission to help your epic mission to help your epic mission to help your ep.
That's something that we have to have a real life difficult that sense that inside us are very much compassionate much compassionate workers.
And also that there is an epic story that is an epic story that we are here and what we are here and what we do.
And then all the positive feedback that we get there.
You have heard about a level of a level of a level and plus-a force, and plus-a force, and plus-intelligence.
Sun" constante face of the real life.
When I went to this stage from this stage of stage here, I won't get a speak of plus-20 crazy idea, plus-20 gets idea.
I don't get in the real life. I don't get in real life.
Now, the problem with collaborative online worlds like World or Warcraff of Warcraff of the time at the point of time at a very epic story, that we decide all our time to spend all our time to spend all our time to spend all our time to spend all our time to spending a spending of time to spending a little bit of time to spend all of the time of an epic games of an "epic store
It's just better than the reality.
Fif, World of World of Warcrafts all to 5.93 million years to be spent virtual problems of Azeroth of Azeroth of Azeroth of Azeroth of Azeroth of World of World of World of World of World of World of World of World of World of World of World of World of Warcraff of
Now, that's not a bad thing bad to a bad thing.
It sounds may be bad there.
To clearly clearly to be able to be 5.93 million years ago, our first human prevent prevent to our first human prevent for.
And that was the first right, the first right,
Okay, so if we talk about the amount of time that we invest in playing games, is the only way it has a very very way that it has send to think, is just by talking about time in the context of human evolution, which is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing is a extraordinary thing is a extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing that is a very extraordindin
But it's also games, because it turns out that we do -- by spend so many time to play from games, we do as much as we are as humans to be able to where we are as people in it.
We evolve to some kind of a that is more reverse and opright.
This is true. I believe this.
So, think about this interesting is interesting in tal.
It was recently by a researcher of the Carnegie Mellon University published.
The average young person today, in a country with a country with a very important culture, 10,000 hours have been taken by the time he has been taken 21 years old.
Now, 10,000 hours is a very interesting numbers for two reasons.
First of all, for children in the United States is 10.0, the exact amount of time that you spend at school at school at school from the fifth teachers to you graduate if you are always affect to you down.
So we have a coping job of education where young people are learning about the guy as much about the guys as they do all the rest in school.
Some of you probably have Malcom Gladwell's book, "Outliers' book, "Outliers' book,
So you probably heard of his successful, the 10,000 hours of success.
It's on this amazing, cognitive scientific research based that if we can have 10,000 hours to be useful to be able to control the only thing that we can be virtuots.
We'll be a little good at the world, we will be doing as the best.
And so, what we see is a whole generation young that are virtuos in the games.
So, the big question is, "Where are gamers then so well?"
Because if we can get to that, if we can get a virtual unpredicted to human potential.
This is the number of people who are playing in the world at least one hours a day online guns a day online games in the world
These are our virtuoses.
500 million people who are extraordinary in anything.
And in the next decade decades will have a billion gamers that are extraordinary in something that are extraordinary in something that are extraordinary gooms that are extraordinary gamers that are exceptional good at a billion gamers that are extraordinary game in the next decade decadecades to be a billion gamers that are extraordinary.
If you don't know it even this comes out.
The gaming-industry is consoles of developing that weinely needed and with wireless networks rather than band instead band the gamers of the world, particularly in India, China and Brazil, China and Brazil, and Brazil, and Brazil, and Brazil, and Brazil, and Brazily -- the gamamblocket and Brazil.
They expect a billion gamers over the next decades of decades.
That brings us to 1.5 billion gamers.
So I asked me wonder that we are in the games of this games of virtuos.
I found four things I found four business is bringing optimism.
Okay. This can you can see as extreme self-motivation.
Branhind optimism is the wants to accell to packah, to packah, combined with the belief that we have a rest chance on success.
Gamers always believe that a "epic win" is possible, and that it's always worth to try and try and try and try to try and try and try to try and try to try and try and try and try and try and try to try and try and try and try to try and try and try and try and try and try to try and try to try and try to try and try and try to try and probers,
Gamriches don't care
Gamers are virtuos' virtuos in the weaventure of a dial tribe.
There is a lot of interesting research that we play that we play a game with them -- even though they have been made us at all the way that they all have to be all over the way that we have been making us at all the way that we play to be able to be a game with them.
The reason is that you need trusted to play a game with someone a game of the game of it.
We trust to take them with their time, that they will play the same rules, that they will play the same rules, that they will play the same purpose that they go to the game that they will continue to the game that they will keep to the same.
So a game play with someone the bottom of the underlinge band, the trust and the collaboration.
And we actually build as a result, actually, we actually stronger social relationships.
Salied. Great.
You know, there's a reason that the average World of World of Warcrafts 22, 2-hour a week of 22-hour a half a week for a half-time famous for a half-time famous for the average of World of Warcraf-time famous for the average of World Warcraf. You know, there's a reason is that the average of World of Warcraft. You know,
And that's because we know that when we play a game we are actually happy to work hard than if we are trying to work or something.
We know that we are made as people to be hard, useful.
And gamers are always willing to work hard to work hard to work hard work.
And eventually equipic meaning.
Gamers are living bounced to be built on the planetary scale.
So a little legal to make that clear.
You all know Wikipedia, the biggest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the biggest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the biggest Wikipedia, the biggest wikipe
The second largest wiki in the world, with almost 80,000 articles is the World Warcraft.
Five million people use it every month.
They have more info about World of Warcraft, they were being being treated on the Internet than every other subject treated by another collapsed by another way.
They build an epic story.
They build an epic source of knowledge about World of Warcraft.
Okay, so that his set superforces that are superforces that are to one thing to be combined to one thing that are combine four superforces that are four superforces that are to be combined.
Gamers are super-forced individuals are high-bomb.
These are people who believe that they're able to change the world.
And the only problem is they believe that they're able to change virtual worlds and not the real world.
That's the problem that I'm trying to solve.
There is an economist, Edward Castronova.
His work is brilliant. He seek the reason people so much time and energy spend so many time and money to spend online worlds.
And he says, "We're taking nothing less than a real mass exoxy to virtual worlds and gamemegles."
And he's an economist, he's an economist, so it's rational.
And he says, "Not like me, I'm a game design design -- I'm a game designer; I'm excited.
But he says this is logically logic, because gamers can be more reach more reach in a world than in real lifetime.
They can have stronger social relationships in games than in real life.
They get better feet, they feel more reward more rewards than in the real.
So he says it is perfect logical that gamers are spending more time in virtual worlds than in the real world.
Now, I'm also going to be agreement, at this time.
But it's not a optimal situation.
We have to do the real world in a game of game in a game of game
So I take my inspiration of something 2,500 years ago.
These are ancient death dobbles, OK?
For we had controlls had cool cool cool cool cool cool cool of cool cool --
And this such tools the first piece for that dient, and this is being designed by people.
And if you know the old Greek historician Herodotus Herodotus historician Herodotus --
the inventors of the first play and why they invented it extend to the invent.
Herodotus says that game that game with dobbles, particularly invented the cope Lydia for a hungry coopered for a hungry cooperat.
And it turns out the hungry, that the king of Lydia deconing to do something.
People suffering. People are fought
It was an extreme situation. They had to find an extreme solution.
So, Herodottus, they found a death of state and put a state policy to be able to go.
One day, the one day, eat everybody.
The next day, everyone plays everyone play game plays.
And they would be so catch a couple in their play because playing his so bird, and stupid us in this salt productivity, that they had no food -- they had no food --
The next day, they play game plays.
The day after it.
And then Herodotus they were helped this 18 years.
They survived a hungers by eating the one day and play the next day, and the next day,
Now, I think this is exactly how we use games today.
We use games to get the lines of the real world.
We use them to get them to get the real world, is the real world, everything that is not restant to the real life, and we get what we need from games.
But there is not to end.
This is very exciting.
After 18 years was not going to be better -- the hungers didn't even go better.
So the king that she would play that she would play a last death --
They shared the whole king of the kingdom.
They play one death of a dobble, and the winner of that game was an epic adventure.
They would leave Lydia and looking for a new living place.
And not enough people were kept to survive the life of lifese, and hopefully they could be able to make the civilization somewhere elsed.
Now, this sounds of crazy -- right?
But recent DNA evident DNA evidence to the Etruse, which would lead to the Romey, the same DNA as the old Lydiancy.
And so scientists have suggested that Herodotus" is a lot of where is a lot of where
And geologists have found evidence of a climate change that almost 20 years.
So this guy could be where you can be where you can be true.
It could be that they could have their culture through games by playing play by play -- by play for 18 years and then so much as a stuff for 18 years and so much of the games together by playing gamonds.
Okay, we can we do it.
We play Warcraft.
It was the first time strategy game of the World of Warcrafts series. That was 16 years ago.
They play with death dobble-stone during 18 years, we play -- we play 16 years.
I say we are ready to our own epic game.
Now, they were going to have the population for the population for a new world.
So that's what I was going to do is where I gamemeplay play a week today.
We go and take the case of agree to go to an hour a day to go to the problems in the real world.
Now, I know what you walk you say, "How will we solve those problems by gament?" Well, that's what I have to solve the last few years, to the last few years, to the Institute For the Institute For the Tucome.
We have a banner in our building in Palo Alto, and it pressure point of how to deal with the future.
We don't want to predict him.
We want to form.
We want to imagine the best possible example,
And then we want to give people the force to make that equal reality.
We want to imagine our stors' "epic wins' and then people give the resources to story.
I'll show you a little three games that I made a point that I made a point that I made a point to give people the resources to create their own epic storcall.
Okay, this is World Without Oil.
We made this game in 2007.
This is an online game where you try to survive a tshort to survive it.
The short is fictional, but we don't know enough online content to make you believe that it's really -- and you have to believe that it's really and to show you real life as if we don't have more oil. And so if we don't have the game you told the game you tell you where you live.
And then we give you reali-time images and data feet that you have to give you what the exact of oil, which is not available, how the food supply is affected by the transportation of the schools are influence, or the schools are regulars are going to be influences or running out of the schools are re-pulling images and that are reachieving you to re-fited images and you can be the sciously re.
And you have to figure out how to do your real life should be like this was true true to be true about it. And then we ask videos and pictures and pictures and pictures.
We started this gameters with 1,700 players in 2007.
And we followed them for the three years.
And I can tell you that this is a transformative experience.
No one wants to be lived only because it's good for the world or because we would have to do because we would have to do it.
But if you understand them in an epic adventure, and she says, "We don't have an oil meas."
This is a great story and adventure to go up.
And I like to see yourself to see how to survive it.
Most players were held their lions that they were integrated in this play.
So, for the next world-saving game game game is we got higher higher problems more oil.
We made a game called Superstruct struck to the Institute For the Toe.
The plot was that a supercomputer had calculated that people had only 23 years on Earth.
This supercomputer had the name Global Extinction Awareness Syvoice.
We asked people to get online, almost as a Jerry Bruckheimerry film.
You know, Jerry Bruckheimerry Bruckheat, you have a threat.
You have the astronaut, the scientists, the extample, and they have to rescue the world.
But in our play, we have five people on the three, team team and team team and team team and it's your job to find the future of energy, and the future of food and the future of food and the future of food and the future of the health and the future of the social of the social in the social of the social vantatage of the social from the future of the social of the future of social from the future of the future of the future and the future of the future and the
We had 8,000 people play the game, for eight weeks.
They resolve solutions that you can see if you can see if you can see if you can see if you look like Google "Superstruct."
And then finally, the last game, we bring him on three maps. This game is made it out of the World Bank Institution with the World Bank Institution with the World Bank Institute.
If you play the game you'll be certified by the World Bank Institute, like a Social Institute, like a Social Innovator, class of 2010.
And recognize universities around Swart Africa, and we notice them to learn to learn social innovation skills.
We have a comic story. We have a system with a system with the skills like local insches like local insches and findingness, vision and findings.
I would like to share all to share this game of game blood, all over the world, especially in the world, especially developing the world and extend to save their own social entrepreneurations to save the world.
So I'll go to now.
I want to ask a question.
What do you think is going to happen now?
We have all these great gamers, we have these games that are ideas of what we could do, but not have been saved the real world.
Well, I hope you get ads with me, that gambers are a human aid source that gambers we can use to help the real world, that games are a powerful platform for change.
We have all this incredible superforces, salous productivity, the possibility to away, the ability to away, and a poem to away, and the desire of burning for an epic meants.
I really hope that we can come together to play games to play games that make a difference to survive to survive to survive to survive the planet.
And my hope is that you go with me, in making and play games and play games like this.
If I take forward to the next decade I know two things that we can make two things that we can previous form every future that we can predict and we can play every spl we can play that we want.
So, I say, "Well, let the world-changing playing games.
Thank you.
Since one time I am interested in the place-effect.
And that can seem strange for a magician unless you add to this is the same meaning as I think that is is taking very much as a little bit strong by someone believed that it really gets really -- a measurable effect in certain particular studies: the place: the place: the place: the place: the place: the place: the place-effect.
Just because the person in issue thinks that what is is a copy powerful resilience or something else.
For example, for example, for example, somewhere in below in a couple of things that is impact, the place-effect.
Something that is neat, the way that is is a perception of perception.
To make sure that we understand each other, I want to start to start to show you a very simple basistrator.
And I'll show you how it works. This trick is certainly since the 'fifth in every magicians in every magic for children to find it.
I have himself as little boy at the seventions in the seventions of the years.
I'll do the trick I do the trick I read him.
And then I explain why I explain why I explain why I explain the way.
This is what happens.
The whether you can see, my hand, you can see.
I'm going to be a little bit of my dirtchests.
I'll flow my meant a little bit of my mind.
And certainly certainly that there is nothing in my wall of my wrist;
You can see that there is no movement to be a movement.
I can get a long time I couldn't get anything in and come out of my myour mind.
The goal is very simple --
I'll open my hand, and hopeful, if it's good is, my magnetism will keep the covering for the supply to his place.
And the thing is even so urband, that I can shake it can't screamed and that it doesn't look like the ground.
Nothing is in my mouse, no cheury. And you can coperate everything else.
Ta-day!
I learned this trick I learned to young kids that are interested in the good. And you can learn a lot about crimp by study.
Even the trick of the trick is very simple simple to the trick of each other.
Probably many of you probably know many of you this trick.
This is what happens.
I like the difficult in my hand.
I say that I say I think I don't have any pak, to make sure that there is nothing in and I get out of my must come in and come out of my ming.
That's money eyes.
The reason I saw my wristy is because there is the secret of the illusion of the illusion of the illusion of the illusion of the illusion of the illusion of the illusion of the illusion of the illusion of the illusion of the illusion of the illusion of the illusion.
And at the moment my hand, my hand, from your face away from his original place to a wisdom of his original place to one in one which he's been so positioned so that he has been so positioned to one in the way that he has been so much positioned to one in the time that he has been so positioned to one in the time that he has been so position
"Mooi tricky cool. Someone who had no youth of youth in the room.
This is going to be the thing.
And if I reverse my finger.
We can talk about why this is a definitely why you don't you notice that there are only three fingers are seeing in this only three fingers are seeing.
That's because the brain information in a way that doesn't matter a way that it doesn't matter two, three counts, but growing, it's growing,
But that's not really going to be about, right?
Of course, it is not going to be magnetism, but by cheating, by the presence of my wish.
And if I close my hand, the same.
And if I turn back again, this movement for that I can retract my finger to retract my finger back to it.
I have this hand you reach the disappear.
A beautiful trick that you can do for friends and family for friends and family
Now, what does this do with the place-foot effect?
About a year ago I read a research that my eyes me opened the eyes of opened the eyes of all the eyes that I read the eyes that I read the eyes that I read the eyes that I read was a year ago.
I'm not a scientist, so for me was amazing.
It turns out that if you allow a placebo in the form of a white rounds that seems on an aspire that seems on an aspire impiration that looks like a particular measurable effect.
And often the shape of the placebo changes, for example, by making a smaller pill, that you have color, and you go through a letter on the case is the ebo measurable effective.
And despite that no of these adaptments medicine is the sugar pills.
But a white pilly is not as good as a blue --
What? I got really from the bottom of the bottom of the botom.
But it turns out, it can be able to do.
It turns out that capsules are even effective than any kind of tablets like tabletabletabletabletablets are even more effective than any any kind of tablets are even more effective than any any kind of tablets are even more effective than any tabletablets of the tabletabletab
A purpose of a purpose on the one and red, is better than a white -- is better than a white one.
Doseration is a rol.
A pill twice every daily is not as good as three pillengineering -- I can't remember the statistics -- sorry.
But the point is ...
Compace a role.
And the shape a rol.
And for the ultimate placebo effect, we need to go to the needle.
Yes, right? A injection with some inert, a few centers, a few centernal of a kind of input, you know, a patient,
This is an enormous powerful image in his mind.
It's many times stronger than the white pil.
We let a graph graph -- when we can see dias.
The point is the white pillisn't as good as the blue, is not as good as the capsule, is not as good as the capsule, is not as good as the name as the name thing as the name thing as the way.
And no one of all has a real drug propert.
Just you believe it really makes it really enables a stronger effect.
I wanted to look at if I could apply that idea in a trick of trick.
I wanted to take something that clearly a trick and really like that.
We know that research that when you want to grab the needle of the needle of the needle.
This is a needle of almost 18 inches of almost 18 inches.
I'm going to be a little bit of starise here.
This is really my meat. This is not a special meat.
This is my skin. This is not Hollyword special effect.
I'm going to spend my skin boars and this needle by my arm arm, until I put it through my arm through my poor hundred of my arm arm, and I go through my poor high through my arm arm, and I go through the poor hundred through my skin.
If you're flawkes oversitive -- or if you are easy flawvaltom, I did this trick for a few friends and also people I don't know know.
A woman went to almost of her sticky.
So I imagine that if you're following overall of the next 30. You know what, I do the first sides part of it.
You can look at the time you want.
This is what happens.
And I make a little bit of my arm, I make a little globe.
Sorry, man. Do you can do this crimber?
And then a little sheep a piece and then you go out and then out to the other side outside.
Now, in the same situation as we are in the same situation as with the mestrucure.
A kind of thing.
But you can count my fingers count, right?
I showed them here is two, three, four, five.
Yeah.
I know people think that if they see this.
They think, "He's certainly not dom enough to spend themselves for a few minutes of entertainment of his public." Let me give you an ind to give you a look at it.
How does that look like this? Do good.
Yes, I know it. The people back in the room saw in the room is not that saw I don't think I saw that don't see, right now in the other room are now closer to the screen.
Let me show you this from close to the closer to you.
That's my skin. That's not my skin. That's not Hollywood special effect.
That's my meat. I can go and turn it into a little bit of it.
Sorry. If it gets you too much look at that thing.
People in the room or people later at the images of the images of images will say, "That looks like a beautiful special effect, but if it was really like -- there was a hole and there, he would be blood." Let me just to be flower. And if it was a little blowing blocked for you.
Yes, there it is it.
Normally, I would spoke the needle of removing the needle.
I would be an arm, and I would show you that there were no cover.
But in this context and with the idea of something that is taking and really make it case and really make it just down, and I just go and sit down the stage.
The next days I'm going to see you more more than that.
Hopefully you look at that. Thank you very much.
I have a lot of fishing in my life.
I love only two two two two of them
The first thing that looked like a passionate affaire.
It was a beautiful fish, good structure, good structure, a exist-seller on the menu.
What a fish.
Beter now, it was crazy fishing fishing to the highest standards of sustainability.
So you feel good at the sell.
I had a relationship with this beauty for a few months.
And one day the head of the company and asked me or I wanted to speak on an eventual about the sustainability of the shortiny of the shorting.
"Absolutely I said, I said, I said, "Absolutely saying,
Here was a company that was trying to solve that this unamazing problem for our coks.
How do we love on our menu?
In the last 50 years, we have the seas fishing the seas we can caps.
It's hard to survive the destiny destiny
90 percent of the great fish, that we love the tunes, the sacks, the sacks, the sacks, the sackad, they are instone.
There is almost nothing about it.
So, the good or whatever, aquaculture, fiscent is fishing becomes part of our future.
Although there are many arguments to be a lot of arguments to be a lot of arguments to be a lot of arguments to be a lot of arguments.
Viscuits of pollutants, most of them althans, they're inefficient, they are inefficient, take tun.
A big minds of point.
It has a food conversier's 15 against 15 against 1.
That means that there was five-photograin fish to get a pound.
Not very sustainable.
And it doesn't make it very well.
So here was finally a company that it was going to be good to do.
I wanted to support them up.
The day for the event, I was the head PR of the company.
Let's call him Don it.
"Don," I said, "to get the facts of getting the facts of that you don't know because of it so far in sea solid."
"That is right, he said, "We're so far out of the cost, that the device that the waste of our fishing and not concentrate, and not concentrate.
And he feed "We're in fact, we're in a worldview.
And that food conversiero? 2.5 against 1," he said, "Best in the business."
Seight against 1, amazing.
"2.5 against one what?
"Duurzy: Hey, he said he said, he said he say.
"Great," I said to be down. And I explain it.
And that night, I was lay and thought, what is in godnment in godnment of godnment?
So the next day, I believe for the eventually recently, I called Don.
I said, "Donon, what are examples of sustainable protein the way.
He said he wouldn't whe'd go around and wouldn't be the questions.
So I have been on the line with some people in the company.
No one could give me a clear answer to me a clear.
UntimI finally got the head-up biologist.
Let's call him Don it a little bit of Don the time.
"Don," I said, "What are a few expensive perform of sustainable protein ininitial included?"
Good, he called a single algae and some fishing meal meal and then he said chicken balls.
I said, "Kipballs?"
He said, "Yes, high, shood, high-bands, shoot and caused to be drought and caused to be able to the vehicle."
I said, "Which percentage of your food?"
And thinking behind -- two percent.
"Well, that's about 30 percent," he said he say.
I said, "Donon, whatever, you know, "Don, you know,
There was a long sheer on the line, and he said, "There is just too much chicken in the world."
My love for this fish was over.
No, not because I have a self-engines, deddate fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine fine probs.
I am that I'm like.
No, I love my love for this fish for this fish for this fish to the fish to chicken to chicken to chicken to chicken to chicken to chicken to chicken to chicken to chicken down and fish for this fish to chicken to chicken to chicken down to chicken down and fish it take.
This second fish, that's a very different love story.
It's the romantic species that kind of nature that you have more of your fish.
I was at first in a restaurant in a restaurant in southern Spane.
A friting journalist spoke for long over this fish.
She has us or more ingingeluist.
He came up with a table, almost gun, white packaged the white town.
The cok had cook; it had cooks.
Almost two times too times too time.
And amazing around.
Who can a fish so good to make a fish so good to do after he cook?
I don't don't do this follow.
Let's call it Miguel --
Actually, his name is also Migual.
And no, he's not cooking and he's not cooking and he's not cooking.
Don't lesh the way as you and I don't know and I have to understand it.
He's a biologist, in Veta La Palma.
That's a fishing in the southern southern of Spaint.
At the dot of the Gaudalquivian river.
And then the '80s, the far 80 was the decades.
They picked up some remarkable to some behavior.
They did it by draining the country and behaviors.
They built a complex channeling channels and they pushed the water of the country in the river.
It wasn't couple of them not couple of it.
And ecological geseen it was a disaster.
90 percent of the birds went to death.
what, for this place, lots of a lots of birds are lots of birds are lots of birds are lots of birds are lots of birds are lots of birds are lots of birds
And so in 1982 a Spanish environmental company the country the country the country the country the country has been bought the country has been bought the country has been bought the country has been bought the country has been bought the country has been bought the country has a Spanish of the country has a Spanish environmental
What did they they did?
They turned the water flows the water flow.
They literally put the button the button the buton.
Instead of pushing water out and pushed the channels to late.
They put the channels under water.
They created a 1100 hectare great fishing -- bands major fish. And they have a paling -- and at the same time, Miguel and his company the ecological destation of the ecological destate.
The grid of the gun.
I mean, you never have seen something like this.
You look at the horizon that ends infinitely far away and all over the flow channels and this thicky, rich moeras.
Not so long ago I was there with Migual.
He's an amazing vent, Charles Darwin and one quarters and one quarter Crocodie.
OK? Well, there we are plumbering through the behavior, I could, and model, moduntil my cnee-calm calm calm calm calmps a biologiles.
Here he points to a rare Schouder-woman.
Now he point it points to the Untimp of the phytoplankton.
And here, here he looks like a group spatran that does it think,
It turns out that Migual was the largest part of his career, in the Mikumi National Park in Africa.
I asked him how he has become an expert of a fish.
He said, "Vis? I don't know anything of fish.
I'm a relationships."
And then he talked so further about rare birds and algae and weird water plants.
Don't wrong, it was really fascinating, a kind of biological community uniplught me so much,
It was great, but I was loved.
And my head sweming with the cooked piece of cooked the night, which I had the night.
So I said, "Migual, how does it get that your fish so well, how does it get your fish so well as your fish so well?"
He read to the algae.
"I know it, the guy, the algain, the phytoplankton, the relationships, it's great.
But what fish the fish?
What is the food conversiero?"
And then he goes through me that it is such a rich system that the fishing is what they would eat the wild to eat.
The plantary biomass, the phytoplankton, the animal plankton, which is the fish.
The system is so healthy, it's completely self-re-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-re-innoving.
There is no feat.
As a farm that didn't feel her animals who don't feel fearing her animals.
And I reach this day, I reach this terrain with Miguel and asked him, I said, "For a place that I said, "For a place that I ever know been to, "how do you measure success?"
And at that moment was like a filmer record a setwo-regular.
And we went to the corner and saw the most amazing face, thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands and crazy for them to look at you.
"That's success," he said he saying, he said he saying.
"Look at their bugs, roll.
They're partner."
Fest? I was totally confused total --
I said, "Migual, are not at the fishing on your fish?"
"Yeah!"
"We are touched 20 percent of our fish and fish.
Last year this area had 600,000 birds of birds over 250 different kinds of things.
It's now the biggest and one of the most important private birds of birds in Europes;
I said, "Migual, is a bird population that it does not be the last thing you want to do about a fish?"
He shake his head no.
He said, "We are extensive, not intensive, not intensive,
This is an ecological network.
The flamingos eat the shrimp of garnals.
The garnales eat the phytoplankton.
So the pasher the system."
OK, let's just take a little bit of a little bit of a little thing.
A far, which are not worth animals are not a cular that are success measured to the galagers.
A fish, a fish, but also a bird of fish.
Oh, marries: that flamingos, which would actually be really not really really really really really really really totally right.
They were hunting in a village 250 kilometers away the solid conditions are better to build nest.
Every morning they fly fly 250 kilometers to the front of soil.
And every night they flying 250 kilometers back 250 kilometers back 250 kilometers
They do that because they can be able to squick the boars of the rate A92
No joke.
I was a penguinmars forward to me a penguinmars on the time.
I said, "Migual, fly 250 miles to the front and then the avenon's 250 kilometer?
Do they do for the boy?"
And he looked like I just looked like a Whitney Houstone of the circle.
He said, "No. They do that to be a better better."
I didn't like the skin of my loving fish. I don't like to retold and I don't like fish.
I love it up. I like like that. I like like that.
It's that wrange, teachers, teachers,
I don't do it.
But when I was taken it in that restaurant in southern Spanin, he didn't cut at all.
He taken like he taken and set a hap of the ocean
I said to Miguel and he calls Migual and he calls
He said, "The skin works like a sponse.
It's the last defend for defense to defend the body is going to be the body
He's evolved to oxygen on the purpos."
And then he added "But our water has no water has no water has no southern of water has no imonify."
OK. A fish. It's a fish.
A cunately success measures success of his predators.
And then I realized that when he said, a couple that no inyverities -- he made a big understatement statement because the water that is the water that comes out of the Guadalquiver comes out of the Guadalquiver comes out of the Guadalthor.
That's a river, that is a rivers that reverse reversing that rivers are neath by taking days, chemical desert reins, pesticide reins.
And as it comes through the system and it takes and away it got inside the water then the water then the water then it came in,
The system is so healthy that it has salt the water purpose.
So not only a climb that are not just a single that are not just a single that are success measured to the health of his predator, but a kill, a freads that literally is a water iversince stallation.
And not just for those fish, but also for you and me.
Because if the water away the water away.
A presson in the ocean, I know it, but I take it, and I take it, and you should also do that, because this love nature of course, although romantic, although romantic, is also learning --
You can say that it's a recipe for the future of food whether we talk about bular food, or now, or runders.
What we need now is a radial new agricultural concept, one that the food actually takes a well.
But for a lot of people is that a little bit too radical.
We are not realists, we are fine fine fine propers.
We are love --
We love farming markets.
We love little family companies.
We talk about local food.
We eat organic.
And if you suggests that these are the things that are the future of food that the future of food is always someone on and says, "Hell I love the world -- I love the world fee?
How do you get the world?"
Is I think it's hone?
I don't like that question.
No, not because we are producing more than enough calories to feet the world.
One billion people are taken hungry.
One billion -- that's more than ever -- that's more than ever -- because of the great imequality in distribution, not the amount of distribution, not the amount of distributed.
I don't like this question because it's defined by the logics of our food system of the last 50 years.
Fother, following bircle, pestics to the monoculturs, chemicals to fishing and the entire agribusiness has asked to fish: "If we feel more people chemicals -- "If we feel that can be that be?"
That's the motivation of the motivation
It's the justice, it's the justice.
It's the entrepreneur. It's the entrepreneur.
We should call it what it is, a entrepreneuration in a liquid that quickly ecological capital undermine that production is possible.
That's not an entrepreneur and it's not an agriculture.
Our daily is threatened now not by decreating by decreating sources of the resources of the last combineum and tractorinvention, but by pump not by pump by pumbling and not by pump, but by clean by pump, but by fisheres and neath by fishers, but by fish the fish and neath and nearly by the sea.
Do you feed the world fee?
Let's start with the question is, how do we do do do do ourselves?
Or better, how can we create conditions that can we feel conditions can we feel it?
To do that, not look at the agribusiness model for the future.
It's old and it's aging and it's astone.
It reaches a money, chemicals and machines, and machines, and it never really has a really good to eat.
Let's look at the ecological model of the ecological model --
That's the model that confidence on two billion years unthe-job experience.
Look at Migual, dish of the Migual, sweater that are not own world, cwent, covering rather than instead of exhausts that exhausts instead of just instead of just instead of just intensive, but in relationships, because they are the experts in relationships, because they are those of experts in the relationship of experts in relationship to be experts in relationship of just like --
And I am very fairly fairly fair than I will be a better block than I will be ever going to be a better follow.
You know, I think it's very primare, because if that the future of food is good food than it is the crowd.
Thank you.
I grew up, on a constantly foot diet.
And then the front of education, I went to school, a hour hour, a and hour hour, and every day.
And I was always absorbed by a book, a science fiction book, which is that mean to mean to mean to other worlds, and that, in stories sense, my inequivalent news and ineded.
And you know, that curiosity is also ways of fested in the fact that I was alwasting when I was not in the forest I was collected in the forest and "monsters and collected, and sun, and sunder the microscope.
You know, I was a real science -- I was a real science --
But it all went to understand the world, the borders of the world, the borders of possible.
And my my love for science fiction, seemed to be mirirror in the world to be him, because what happened, this was the end of the sea year, we went to the moon, we were the deep ocean -- we were the deep ocean Cousteau Cousteau came up with my fantastic specials, that we were habiting our animals that we could never have to love us with the animals that we never had never imal us to see us never imagine.
This seemed to resonate with the whole science fiction element of it.
And I was an artistic
I could draw. I could draw. I could draw.
And because there were no video games and this resemply of CGfilms and all these images in the media landscape I had to create these images in my head.
You know, that we had to do all that if you put a book and the basis of the description of the author of the description of the author something.
And my response to this -- drawings, drawing aliens alien creatures, alien world, already creatures, already all that kind of things.
I was constantly constantly during mathemates in the mathematics behind my textbook.
And that was the creativity that was the creativity that was an extended to find a way.
And there was something interesting happened to the Jacques Cousteau programs, was very extremely extraordinary world, just the fact that there was an alien world, just here on the Earth.
I wouldn't really go to a extraordinary world in a room in a room of spaceship.
And that looked like that looks like that.
But that was a world that I could actually go to this Earth was just on the Earth, which was so rich, if everything I had imagine, and exotic as I had imagine, by reading the books.
So I decided to be diving at 15 years.
And the only problem that I was lived in a little village in Canada -- 600 miles of the nearest ocean.
But I don't remember that I don't remember it by the way.
I was at my father until he finally found a such in Buffalo, New York, just about the ground.
And I was a certified in a swimmble of a YMCA, middle of the winter, in Buffalo, New York.
And I saw the ocean, a real ocean, not to just two years later, when we moved to California moved.
Since then, in the forces 40 years, I have about 3,000 hours under water under water under water was runder water was in submarines in the submarineans.
And I have learned that deep sea and even the undeep oceans, and even the undeep oceans, so wealthy life that it really really, our imagination.
The imagination force of nature is so front of the such of the constrainy of the human imaginations.
And then I have a big thing I see for what I see is this divices of these dives.
And my my dealt for the ocean is still as strong as strong as she ever was ever as strong was as strong as it ever was ever as strong.
But when I was a career a career was this filmmaker.
And that seemed the best way to do the newest way to tell stories that I had to combine stories, to combine with my desire to create images.
And if a child was always a kid of carket comic books, and so on.
Films are making the way of images and stories and stories and stories to get together.
And of course, the stories, I choose bucks, science fiction -- "Terminator," "Aliens," "Aliens," and "The Abyss."
And with "The Abyss," I spent my love for underwater and dives, together with films.
Day, the two passions combining.
Something interesting from "The Abyss," which is that to resolve a specific story-engineering problem in that film, create the kind of creating a kind of fluence: the computer of creating a kind of fluence, that we generated computer generated animation, CG, omomo enset up and enabled to solve a specific problem,
And this resulted in the first soft surface character, CG. CG. CG.
And even despite that the film never got money to never get money break-a-even break-a-even I was really -- I was an extraordinary of something extraordinary was that the public, the global magic.
You know, it's Arthur Clarke's Clarke's laws, that every enough every enough technology is not too distinguish.
They saw a magical.
And I got very excited about that.
And I thought, "Wow, this is something that has to be surrounded in the filmber."
So, with "terminator 2", which was my second film, which was my second film, we went out to this further further in the movie --
And the reason with ILM, we created the liquid metal metals to that film. The success of it would work. And the success of it would work.
And we did it does. And we created again.
And we had the same result with the audience.
We would take a little bit more money on that film.
So, to pull a line between those two points of experience, this is a whole new world, a whole new world of creativity for filmartic for filmartions of filmartion stone.
So I started a company with Stan Winston, my good friend Stan Winston, who the most make-up, and creature, and creature, and it was called Domain.
And the concept of the company was that we would make a jump, precisely the analog processes of optical printers and we would have directly directly directly to digital production the digital production is that we would get to the digital production of optice and we would have to be an incept of the company was that we would have a jump,
And we did that we actually did and the gave of the time, a competition of the engineering a competition of it.
But we found our ourselves behind the mid-year-olds in the scep, and characterdesign -- and characterdesign for company we had the company we had the company we originate the company that we had the company that we had to get up.
So I wrote this piece called "Avatar," which was "Avatar," which was to explain absolutely the bordering of visual effects, of CG, with realistic human emotional characters in CGG, and the world in CGood and the world in CGGroads would all in CG, and the world and the CG, and the world would be back to CGeners.
And I was told by the people in my business that we wouldn't be able to do this.
So I put it in the refrigerate, and I made that other film about a big scree of a big scree that sentenceing.
I sold it to the studio as "Romeo and Juliet" and Juliet" on a ship."
It's an epic romantic, a passionate film.
And what I wanted to do was a real written to the real walk of the "Titanic."
And that's why I made the film of the film
And that's the truth. Echter, the studio didn't know that that doesn't know that that doesn't know that that doesn't know
But I was convinced them, I said, "We're going to take it to cover the wood. We're going to really film it.
We'll use it in the opening of the film.
It's very important. It will be a great marketing hope to be a great marketing hope.
And I think that she was an expedition.
Sounds of the teme of your imagination that is removing imagination that creates a reality.
Because we actually created a reality that I found a reality that I found six months later in a Russian undersea -- two and a half deep and a half deep, in the northern Atlantic ocean, looking at the real Telan ocean, looking at the real Take Cartic, not a film, not a film, not a film, not not a film, not a film, but equip, not a film, not a film, but not a film,
And I was very much to get from that.
And the regular a lot of prepared for a lot of excited, and we had to develop all kinds of things.
But it was just in the case of this dive dividing dive divids.
You know, there was very technical and the refest huge planning.
You get in such a capsuch of capsuch environment in this dark environment that there is no hope on saving the way to be save like not to get back to it.
And I thought, "Wow, it seems or I live in a science fiction film.
This is very cool.
And so, I had the taken of exploring the deep ocean to pack the deep ocean
Nature, the curiosity, the science component of it.
It was all the time. It was a night, it was curiosity. It was imaginative imagination and it was an experience that Hollywood me.
Because you know, I could imagine a creatures and we could imagine, and we could be able to create a visual effect." But I couldn't imagined what I saw out of that windom I saw from that windom --
And as we did some of our next expeditions I saw some creatures at hydrothermal sources and sometimes things that I had never seen before, sometimes sometimes things that nobody had ever seen, that didn't see anyone before, that was not described by the science at the moment that we saw and they described and they did.
So I was a following and I had to do more than that.
And so I made a weird decision.
After the success of "Titanic," I said, "OK, I'm parking my job as Hollywood filmmaker, and I'm going to be a while is explore with a while is explore to be a while the whole of time.
And so we started planning these expeditions
And we went to the Bismarket, and explored the robotic vehicles.
We went back to the wrap of the Titanic.
We took little "collision, we had created with that glass glassal following up with that glass
And the idea was to go to inside and an interior -- research of that ship -- which never done before.
No one had ever looked at the wood, they didn't have the resources to do it, so we developed technology to do it.
So, here I am here is at the Titanic, in a submarine in a submarineance, and look at outside and look at outside that seems so much like this, where I knew that the band had the band had the band played the band
And I decided to a little robotic by robotic by the ship.
When I say that I was going to be consciousness in the vehicle I felt that I felt physically as if I was physically inhaving physically inside,
And it was the most surretraveling kind of dejavu-experience that I ever had ever been -- because I was a corner to be able to do it -- for the vehicle the lions of the vehicle of the vehicle long on the movie was when we were open the film when we were able to make the film when we were able to make the film to be able to make the movie --
And the set was an exactly replica on the blueprints of the ship based on the ship based on the ship based on the blueprints of the ship based on the blueprints of the ship based on the blue-based on the blue-based on the blue-based based on the blue-based replica on the blueprints of the blueprinue-based express the blue-based printing based based based printing based based on the bluadwrin
So a really remarkable experience.
And it did me realize that the telepresence that the telepresence that you can actually have this kind of robotic avatars, where you can be injected in the vehicle of the vehicle, in this other shape of existence.
It was really pretty close to be a pretty profound deep.
And probably a little bit of a look, what could happen, what decades -- which decade as cyborg" body and available for exploration or another, in many species of post-human future, which I can imagine as a science foundly as a science foundly from, which I can imagine ftion foundly like a science fiction foundly to me as a science ff that I can imagineer to be a little bit of a look,
So, these expeditions and really begin to have some of the expeditions that was there as the deep ocean resources that we had this wonderful wonderful wonderful wonderful animals --
They're just a mad-written creatures on Earth.
They live in a environmental of chemosynthesese.
They don't live in a sunlight based system like we do that.
And so you see animals that lives next 500 degrees Celcius heat plumes.
You could think that they can be able to exist.
And at the same time, I was also again a very interested in space science, again, the science, again the science, again science, and the science fiction influence.
And I got involved in space community, very concerned at NASA, participants to the NASA advocused on the NASA advies: actual space mainvolved, I went to Russia, I went to Russia, and all that kind of things, to actually work with our reduces and all that kind of things, to actually go to the international space with our 3D systems.
And this was fascinating.
But what the final result that I was going to be that I space scientists with our meenam to the depth.
And they take access so they had access to astrobiologists and plantary scientists, people who were interested in that extreme environmend to the sources and they look at the sources and take them and samples and so forth.
So, here we were documentary films to do but actually make it also make science to do this -- and actually actually actually science to do it, and actually actually actually space science to do it.
I had made the circle cell around from the science fiction fan and you know, if chiland all do this really all do.
And you know, for this journey, I learned a lot of explore I learned a bunch of it.
I learned a lot about science. But I also learned a lot about leadership.
Now you think that a record to be a leader of a leader of ship and a aptain of the ship and that kind of things.
I didn't really learn about leadership until I did expeditions
Because I had to say at a certain moment -- "What do I do this?
Why do I do this? What do I win it?"
We deserve not money with these disappears of disappear.
They're pretty wak-a-stop and there's no fame for it.
People think that I have been going to be between "Titanic" and "Avatar" and "Avatar" and I turned out to the beach.
I made all these films, all these films, all these documentary for a very restrict.
No far, no glory, no money. Where are you mean?
You do it for the work itself, for the challenge, and the ocean is the most challenging environment that is there is a little band that strange of discovery, and for that strange people have a little group of people a small group of people a team of team of people have been able to form form form --
Because we did all these things with 10-10-12 people working for years to a piece.
Sometimes at sea for 2-3 months to a piece of a piece of piece.
And by that band, you realize that the most important thing is the respect thing that you have for them and that said for them and that said for you -- that you can't explain someone else.
When you get back to the way and you say, "We had to do this and you say, "We had to do this and the demp, and the demp, and the demp, and the hardness, the human performance aspects of working on sea, that thing to the thing to be able to people. It's that thing that is that thing that is probably that thing that can have so forth that if people have not been able to do anything that has so forth.
And that creates a band, creates a band of respect.
So when I came back to make my next film, which "Avatar" was a lot of leadership, I tried that same principle of leadership, and you make your team respect and you make it respect.
And that changed the dynamic.
So, I was back to a little team, in a little team, in the map terrain terrain, "Avatar" to make new technology that didn't have existed before.
Enorm exciting exciting.
And ormmous challenging challenging
And we were a family, for a family, a period of four and a half years.
And it changed how I make films films.
So, people gave commentary, you know, the ocean organisms were taking organisms back and put them on the planet and put it on the planet Pandora --
And for me, it was a fundamental way of doing things -- the process itself, that if result changed that as result of that changed as result of that changed as a result of that changed as result of that it changed itself, which changed as a result of that changed itself,
So, what can we synthesization?
You know, what are the learned teach?
Well, I think is a curiosity.
It's the powerful thing you do.
And imagination is a force that can manifest a reality.
And the respect of your team is more important than all the team is more important than all the team of the world.
There are young filmmakers that come to me and say, "Give me some advice to do."
And I say, "Lay don't go to a restraints.
Other people will not do that for you do, don't do it to yourself.
And take risk of risks."
NASA has said that they are like to say, "Mislucking is not an option."
But criribt has to be an option in art, because it is a jump, because it's a jump,
And no matter entrepreneuration that innovation is done without risk.
You have to be willing to be able to take those risk to take those risks
And that's the thought I would like to leave you that in the way you do that in whatever you do, but not fear -- but not fear -- though thing, don't do that. Thank you.
If I give you a lot of idea of a big idea of this is that it is that it is very much of the data that we use is bigger than the sharing of the parts.
Instead of the information of the information of the information I want to think how we can use information to take patterns and trends that would stay included.
This is a typical death of degree divide distributed to age.
The tool I use here is an experiment.
It's called Pivot. Pivot. Pivot, I can filter filtering on one certain death, for example.
I see an immediately another pattern comes out of a different pattern
That's because here in the middle of people are the most active, and there it is vulners.
We can step out and reorganizing the data reorganizing reorganizing the data reorganized species.
We see that heart diseases and cancer the usual foundations are the usual founds.
If we go and moving, and on age age age 40 years or young young -- we see that includes the largest cause of care.
If you dive in deeper there is that especially for men --
You see what I mean: like this way to see information looks like swimming in a living infographic.
If we can do this with rude data, why not also don't do with intenure?
What we have here is the front page of every number of Sports Illustrated that ever has ever been made it.
Everything is here. It's all about this. It's all the time.
You can go to your room and try and go after my talk after my talk to you.
With Pivot can zoom in a decade.
You can zoom in a certain year.
You can go to a certain number of number of number of number of number of number of number of number of number of number of number of number of number of number of number of number
I look at this thing. I see the athletes that are shifting in this number, the sports.
I'm fan from Lance Armstrong, so forward, so I climb up, and that gives me all the numbers Lance Armstrong in advance:
If I just want to look at here, I think, "Why don't don't all the wwrenels --
I do a step back and go back and go into the time.
Now I see Greg Lemond.
You see that if you read through information, you don't see the information of the information and won't be able to look for it, you don't find it -- you don't get a little bit of the case you don't get a little bit of information in this way.
You do something that is a little different.
It's a sense of there and we think that it changes how to use information.
So I want to go on the other hand, a little bit bit of a little bit bit of it.
Here we have been taken every page of Wikipedia and they rested to a small confattation.
The collaboration is a little synopsis and a icoonth to give it the contribubuting subject.
I just show only the top 500 popular Wikipedias.
But even in this limited disable, we can do a lot of it.
We get an idea of the subject of the subjects that are the popular on Wikipedia.
I'm going to go and take government.
Now I have government -- I see that the Wikipedia-categories that the following out there, Time magazine magazine magazine magazine Mends of Yeah.
This is very important because this insight in the apart Wikipedia-pages pages
You can only get it through a step back and look at them all and look at them all too look at it.
If I look at one of these collaborate containing the deeper Time magazine Person of the year, Person of the year.
And a look at all these people teaches me that the majority of politics.
Some of the natures are from the natural sciences.
A little birth, a little bit of the business world.
That's my boss.
And one of the music world,
What's interesting is that Bono also a TED Prize-wind is to be a TED Prize-wine.
So we can jump to all the TED Prize winners.
So we took a web as if it is really a web as if it's really a web is not from page to page page to page page on a higher abstractivity.
I want to show you one other thing that you might astone.
I show the New York Times.
Pivot, this applies -- I don't want to call it browser, it's actually not browser, but you can look at it webpages -- we bring this magine technology to every webpage page, so so on.
I'm going to leave a step back and jump, right back in a specific section.
The reason this is important is that I can just look so at webpages that I can look at my whole brow-se-history in the same way.
I can look at deeper in what I did in certain perios.
Here's the status of the demo I just spent just this.
I can play things that I'm looking at that time today I looked today.
If I put a step back and everything to look at my historics maybe my historics on the basis of my searcher historic.
And here I did some nepotistic research, I was looking for Bing, and here Labs Pivot.
And from that I can take deep on the page of page and they re-launch,
It's one metaphor that have been reinitial meaning, and every time it makes it very bigger than the som of the data.
And today, in our world, we see data as a fluence.
We talk about the liquid of information.
We talk about drinking in data.
If we were able to put that on his cop and put the web on the web on the web on the next one, and that instead of one thing to go from one thing to many things to go from many things to many things to go from many things to many things that would be hidden to be expected to many things that would be hidden to be hidden that would be hidden to go from the web that would be hidden to go from the
If we can, we don't have that fast in that we can't do it in data, we can really do information to do it in the way that we can really do information.
Instead of just with information to work maybe we can know know --
If we have knowledge, maybe even wisdom to find wisdom
And I thank you very much.
Everybody speaks today about happiness.
I have someone the number of books that the youngest five years with "happiness in the title and he has given it up after about 40, and there were a lot more more.
There is a lot of interested in researchers.
There is a lot of happiness catching crazy.
Everybody wants to make people happier.
But despite that mass that mass there are different cognitive values that make it so what impossible to think about happiness.
And I'll have this today about today that cognitive values.
This is for ordinary people who think about their own happiness and thinking for researchers that thinking about happiness, because it turns out that we are just as in the car, as it turns out that as all the others.
The first fall-coil is the narrative to give complexity to be complexity
It turns out that the word happiness just not usefully that word in too many things.
I think that there is one certain meaning that we could be able to consider it to consider the way we should give up and we have to care about the vision of what we should be able to supply the more complicated vision of what is that there is a little bit of what is the more complicated vision of what is the implicated vision is something that we should be able to reach it to considerive and we will be able to refurther to
The second fall, the fall is the confusion, and that is the difference between happy and his happy in your life and happy are happy in your life or his life or his happen with your life.
And that his two total different things that are going to be thrown in the concept "happines."
And the third focus and the illusion of focus and the unhappy of focus and the unhappy that we can't think about an impact on our well-being the importance of well-being the importance of well.
I mean, this is a really cognitive value.
There is no way to get this good thing.
Now, I would like to start with an example of someone who was a question of someone who was a question and answer after one of my reads a story.
And this was the story.
He said he said he had this to a symphony symphony and it was absolutely fantastic music and at the end of the record of the record of the record sound.
And then he said, really completely engineered that this had been pulled the whole experience.
But that doesn't cope it.
It had the reminds. It had the reminds of the experience.
He had the experience.
He had fantastic music music music music
And they were not worth because he kept with a remind reminded with a reminds; the remind was reminded and the remindsing was all what he had had been to keep it.
What this is that we could see is that we could see ourselves and others as two persons.
There is a variety that lives in the hot and knows, which is able to be able to re-past, but that is only in order to be able to be re-created in the past.
The doctor direct our experiencing I -- you know, if the doctor is the doctor, "Do it pain if I touched you here here here is pain if I touch you here here here is pain if I ask you here here here is pain if I do you get to pain if the doctor of the doctor of it.
And then the remind-reminded I remember is that the one that that is explaining the stories and the story of our lives and that is the person to the doctor, and that is the person who the doctor, "How did you feel the last time.
or "How was you travel to Albania, or whatever."
And those are two very different things, the experience I remember and the confusions between those are part of the the both of the understanding of the understanding of the understanding happiness.
And the remind I is a storyteller.
And that starts to really begin to remind our reminds -- it starts -- it starts immediately starts to be able to do.
We don't tell only stories when we make up with stories.
Our memory tells us stories, that wants to say, what we can be able to say about our experiences is a story.
And let me start with one example of one example of the one.
This is an old research.
And that are real patients that a painful ingreet.
I spend the details. This is not painful today not painful when this research walked in the '90s.
They had to be reported over their pain every 60 seconds of their pain every 60 seconds
And these are two patients.
These are their reports are their reports
And there is "Who of them had the most most of them had the most pain in the pain in the pain in the pain in most of the pain in the pain most pain in the most pain most pain most pain in most of them --
And that's a very easy question.
It's clearly that patient spatient, Building spends of pain
His colonoscopy has longer longer longer and for every minute pain that patient patient has patient that patient, and more.
But here is another question of this patients that they had these patients that they have have been having it?
And what a surprising: The surprise is that patient, A much bad supply has a much bad of worse on the colonoscopy than patient.
The stories of the colonoscopies because a very important part of the story -- and not one of the story -- and not one of these stories -- and not is very inspiring or a copies of these stories -- but one of them is certain worse than the other.
And the worse story is the story in which the pain the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end.
That's a quality story.
How do we know that? Because we asked these people after their colonoscopy, and much later, "How was the whole stuncy, everything else?"
and it was much worse for B, in their remind.
Well, this is a just, a conflict between the experience and remember the experience and remember it remember the experience.
And from the point of view of the experience I had B clearly sworth of the point of view.
Well, what you could do with patient, A, and we actually have clinical trial to be doing clinical trial and it was happening, and it was working on the colonoscopy of patient, and it was just to get a little bit of the neighbors just too much much to be able to move with it.
And that causes the patient, but not mutilate, but not much, and much less than temptation and much less than temptation --
And if you have that a few minutes you have it for the experience I work, and you have made it worse of patient, and you have it been made a much better story because you have a much better because you have given a lot better story about his experience.
What is a story?
And that's what for the stories that living the memory that liver, and it's also true for the stories that we are includes that we consisting it.
And what a story is determines are changed and ending.
Eindes are very, very important and in this case, the end was the end of the most important,
Well, the experience I live his life continuuously,
It has moments of experience, one after the other.
And you ask is, what happens with this moments?
And the answer is really simple.
They're always lost lost. They're lost for always lost.
I mean, most of the moments of our lives -- I extend -- you know, you know, the psychological heds about three minutes,
That means you know, in a life you have about 600 million
In a month, there are about 600,000.
Most of the most of them don't leave a sport of them.
On the most of the most of them is not spending me by reminding the remind.
And yet you get the impressure that they should be of textlesson that they should be from textile of this experience moments of life is.
It's the finite solid that we use on Earth.
And how you use that improves it like that is not a lot of the story doesn't remember the story that I don't remember it for us.
So we have the remind and the experience I and that are really different.
The largest difference between those of the idea of those are in the end.
And from the point of view of the experience I have a vachance, and the second week as the first week is the first one is the vachance of two weeks as well as the vachance of one week as well as the vailation of one weeks.
It doesn't works for the remind.
For the remind is a vachance of two weeks, you know, two weeks, there are no new reminds because there is no new reminds because there are no new reminds of reminds that it is not allowed to be a new reminds of two weeks.
You don't have the story.
And in that way, is actually the critical variable that I did.
Time has very few impact on this story.
And it remember I do remember the more than remind and stories.
It's the person who decide decisions, if you have a patient, you know, two colonoscopies that has had a patient, two colonoscopies and have to decide which he will sell to the least of the minst reminds of the destroy reminds and that is the surgeon-to-sustainable to clude that he will copia.
The vary I have no voice in this choice.
We don't choose between experiences.
We choose between reminds. And even if we don't have the future to remembers that we don't think of our future as we don't think of our future as experience.
We think about our future as a geanticipeated memories.
And you can actually look at this as a dictor of remind me of the remind I remember it remember it as a thick of the experience I just like that I don't need to get the experiencing I need it to deal with the experiencing that if we go to the experience that if we go to the service, that the way to service the biggest of the service.
And that's pretty hard to responsibilities.
I mean, how often do we use our reminds of our remind?
That's one of the explanations that are given for the dominance of the dominance of the remind.
And if I think about that, I think about a vachance that we had a few years ago, in Antarctica, that clearly our best vachance, and I think about it.
And I probably have my remind to that vailation of three weeks over the last four years.
Now, if I had been shown the map of 600 pictures in the 600 pictures in it, I would have an hour.
So these are three weeks, and that's almost other hour.
There seems to be a discrepance.
Now, maybe I am a little extremely -- you know, in the remind that I have rememberations, but even if you do that is the hammaking question is, why is the hammaking question so much to remember so much importance that we have to experience?
So I want you to think about a thought, about a thought.
Imagine that you know on the end of the slipping of the vachance all your photographs will be destroy and you get a pill, and you get a pill.
Would you choose the same vachance? And if you choose a different vachance between your two job.
and you have to think about how you solve that conflict.
That's not so obvious because if you think of time you get a particular terms of time you get one particular answer.
And if you think in terms of reminds of reminds that you might have a different answer.
Why we choose the vasize that we choose choose is a question that confronth that confronted with a choice between the two dish the two disguades that we choose the two diaded.
Now, the two of them to two notions of happiness,
There are really two forms of happiness that we can apply -- one per me.
So you can ask question: how happy is the experience?
And then you would you say, "How happy are the moments in life of the experience?
And it's all happiness -- the happiness of moments is a pretty complicated process.
What are the emotions that can be measured e?
By the way, we are today we are able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the happiness I have been him.
If you ask to the happiness of remember I think that's a total other cause.
This is not about happy someone lives of the happy someone lives.
It's about how much peacedented or following the person is thinking about her life as it thinks about her life thinking about her life.
And then translate is different concept.
Everybody who concepts these concepts on one hope will make a zero-decreating the study of the study of the well-being, and I hear a group of the study of the study of the study of the study of the study of the study of the study of the study of the way that we have a little way.
The distinction between the happiness and the enough I think and the enough I remember is recent and the enough I have recently recent to measure the two determine of measurement, the Gallup doing a global peile in which is a global peinclude of their lives and their their experience.
And there are more inspite in that sentences in that sense.
So the last years, we begin to reject insight in the happiness of the two to cover the two to me.
And the most important lesson that we have learned from each other.
You can know how much peace someone with his life and that you really learn about how happy he lead his life and reverse to be living and engineered his life and reverse --
Just to give you a idea of correlation, the correlation, the correlation is about 0.5.
That means that if you should meet someone and you would say that his father a meter tapous how much would you know about his length of the height?
You would know something about his length, but there's a lot of uncertainty.
So much uncertainty of uncertainty that somebody has been given a whole of 10, you have a lot of 10, you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they're about their experience.
So the correlation is way.
We know something about what the peace of the experience of experience.
We know that money is very important, doles are very important.
We know that happiness is that happiness is that we are totally with people that we were possible by bring time by people that we had to be able to move.
There are other enough, but this is going on.
So if you want to make the happiness of the two ikes to make it explained to explain that you do,
The conclusion of what I've said here is that we wouldn't really be happiness as a substitute for well.
It's a completely different concept.
And then very quickly -- a different reason we can't think of happiness about happiness is that we can't think that we can't read on the same things if we think about life and as we think about life and as we think about life and as we live effective affect life.
So if you ask the simple question of how happy people in California will not get the right answer.
If you question that people have to be happy in California as you live in California as you live in the California,
And what happens is if you think about life in California, you think about the contrast between California, and other places and other places and the contrast between California, and then for example, in the climate.
It turns out that the climate is not so important for the experience I don't even think that decided I decided to be happy to think, how happy people are being happy people are.
But because it thinks I think it can be able to extinct that some people are going to go -- that some people to California.
And it's interesting to go and go and go and take it to California mostly moving to California in the hope happier.
Well, their experience won't be happier.
And that is what we do.
But one thing happens to be happier, they think they're happier, because if they think about it will be reminded how terrible it was reminded how terrible it was reminded to be more awful it was in Ohio.
And they will think that they have the right decision of the decision of them.
It's very hard to think about well-right, and I hope that I hope that I hope that I have a idea of how possible.
Thank you.
Chris Anderson: Thank you. I have a question for you.
Thank you very much.
When we told a few weeks ago on line me that there was a very interesting invention in that Gallup-peile from that Gallup-peiling.
Can you share with our share you a few minutes of a few minutes about it?
Daniel Kahneman: Seator I think the most interesting result of the Gallup-peile is a number of the Gallup-peile that we didn't expect absolutely --
It has to do with the happiness of the experience.
If we look at how feelings differences and look at the income.
It turns out that income from 60,000 dollars a year, for Americans, and then it is all over a whole big group of Americans, so what 600,000, a big representation, with a major of 600,000, a major 600,000 dollars a year.
CA: 60,000 DK: 60,000 dollars a year, then people are unhappiness, and they are becoming happier as they become unhappier as they become armer.
And then we see a completely flake.
I mean, I mean, I have seen such such lines.
It's clearly, what happens is that money is that money not bringing happiness but that a bridge of money is to do you and we can make that miserable to measure that miserable to measure that missing with great, very big precision.
For the other I remember the remind I remember the story.
The more money you deserve to deserve you know.
It doesn't believe that you have a lot of emotions.
CA: But Danny, the whole American freedom, the whole American freedom.
If people who are taking results like the results of this seems to be all like to put what we believe about, they say, whatever fiscally government, fiscally policy and so on.
Is there a chance that politicians that the country in the general result in the general result would take severe and opened it to severe it policy?
DK: You know, I think that there is a recognition of happiness,
And that recognize recognize the United States, that doesn't walk out of the United Kings -- but in the United King's happening in other countries all this happening, and in other countries all the time.
People recognizes that they should think about happiness if they think about public policy.
It will take a time and people will debatters the question if they want to study or to study or evaluation happiness or the evaluation of life so we will have to be able to debate that debate dibate to be able to fee.
How we have been high incredible dependent on how you think and think about the remind or you think about the remind of the experience.
This is going to affect the policy in the next years, I think,
In the United States are done to measure the experience happiness of the population happiness of the population.
And I think that will be a year or 20, a year or 20,
CA: Well, it seems me that this subject is the interesting policy to follow or should be the next few years.
Thank you very much thank you for your invention of the nehavioral economics.
Thank you, Danny Kahneman.
I'm going to talk about energy and climate.
And that may seem a little surprising because my full-time work in the foundation is about vaccines, and the things that we need to invention and supply the poorest two billion people,
But energy and climate is extremely important for these people, in fact, more important than to this planet.
The climate is the climate so that their crops are not going to grow.
There will be too much rainy or wall,
Things will change so their vulnerable environmental to just anymore.
And that leads to hungry. It leads to uncertainty. It leads to uncertainty.
So the climate change.
The price of energy is extremely important for them.
In fact, if you could only take a thing to make cheap to make cheap the poverty, you would cope poverty.
The energy price is silent to the fall of the way.
Remember Ehigh-based civilization is based on the advancement of energy.
The coal-carbon revolution to the industrial revolution, and even in the 20th century was a very quickly, there was a very quickly-frevolution, and so many axen, airconditional materials and so many things.
And we have a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world.
Now, we make the cheaper, now we make it cheap -- and let's make it two times -- then there's a new restriction, and that has to do with CO2.
CO2 leads to the warms of the planet, and the equation of CO2 is actually a very simple thing.
If you cover the CO2 that is being excited, which leads to a temperature, and that temperature, and that temperature, and that temperature.
The effects of the effects of the things may not be able to add the indirect effects, that the natural ecosystems can't adapted to these rapidly changes, and so you get ecosystems that instorts.
Now, the exact amount of how you can go from a certain increasing increasingly from CO2 to which temperatures are going to go and copyright will go and remind the positive refrigerations, but not very much, but not very much.
And there is certainty, uncertainty of how very the consequences, but they're very severe to be very severe to be very severty.
I have been asked this often to top-scientists.
We have to really come to be incable,
Can we don't take half or a quarter of a quarter noise of a quarter of head?
And the answer is that until we get in the neighborhood, the temperature.
So that's a big challenge.
So for example, a four meters high four feet of 3.6 meters are trying to get to get to get out of it.
This is something that to zero.
Now, we didness chairs a lot of CO2 billion ton.
For every American is about 20 ton.
For people in poor countries is less than one ton.
It's a average of about five tons for everyone on the planet.
And we had to do anyway, things to change that to zero.
It's constantly constantly up.
And one of the economic changes have a little bit of a rap, so we have to increase from a rapid of a pace of a packay, and a dealt at zero.
This equation has four factors.
A little multiply multiply to be a little multiply multiply multiply.
So, you have something to the left side, CO2, that you want to bring to zero-and-based use of service, the average use of services per person, the average of the end-encounter-aged to every services a energy units.
So, let's look at this point for piece and see how we can get this to zero.
Probably one of these values in the neighborhood.
That's a high school mathematics, but let's take a look at a time.
First of all, we have the population.
Now, the world today has the day 6.8 billion people.
That's the style of the increase to about nine billion.
So, if we really do it with new vaccins, health care health care reproductive health care, then we could reduce that measures measures -- 10 or 15 percent, but we see a stye of about 13.
The second factor is the services that we use it.
This contains everything, the food that we eat all eat, tished up.
These are very good things, and the away from poverty of these services of services to almost everyone on the planet.
So it's great as this number of style.
In the rich world, maybe the top one billion, we can probably inflect the top of the world, but yearns are going to take this number, and then the average, and so on average, and so on the average of the diensts will double.
And here we have a very simple service.
Have your lightation in your home to read your homework -- and you don't go to outside and they read to outside and read their homework under the lunder the lunder of the lunder the lunder of the lunder the lunder the lunder the long-too.
So, efficiency, E, the energy for every service.
And for eventually we have good news.
We don't have something that is not stying.
And Via diverse inventions and new ways of extent by other kinds of enlight, by other ways of building --
There are many services that you need to reduce the energy that can be lots of the energy that you need to reduce the energy that you need to reduce the energy that you need to be able to lot.
Some individual services, even with 90 percent.
There are other services, as we have to produce or how we are producing with airverage where the space for improvement is much smaller.
And so, if we are optimistic, we can reduce a factor three to them, a factor six to them, a factor six to them,
But for these first factors we are 26 billion -- at the next three billion -- 13 billion and that's just not enough.
So let's look at this fourth factor -- this will be a certain -- and that's the CO2 a energy equipment per energy units.
So the question is, can you get that to nul it?
If you are chooking, no.
If you stook, no.
And it's a way that we produced the day of electricity every day, except the emerging sustainable energy and nuclear energy and nuclear energy, produces CO2.
And what we need to do in global scale, is creating a new system.
So we need energy wonders --
So, if I wonder in the term of the term I don't do something that is impossible.
The microprocessor is a wonder. The phic is a wonder.
The Internet and the services are a wonder.
So, the people here have contributed to create many wonders.
Normaliter we have no deadline, when you have to have it on a certain date.
And you know, you are just waiting sometimes it happens -- sometimes it doesn't happen anywait
This is a lot of which we have to actually have to get a full speed and a wonder need to get within a stream.
Now I thought how can I really really, this is what can I really refrigerat?
Is there a kind of natural illustration, a demonstration that is a demonstration that is talking to the imagination.
I thought back to a year ago, when I was mosquito and in a year ago, and I thought that was a way that fun.
It was actually involved in the idea that there are people who live with mosquito life.
So, with energy, this was the only thing I could think of this was the only thing I could think of it.
I decided I decided to get free flies like my contribution here this year.
So here we have some natural urflies of the superpetual flourish.
And I told that they don't remember it may not leave this pot.
So, there are all kinds of gimmick-like solutions like this, but they don't really make it such such a little bit of it.
We need solutions to be a or multiple on an incredible scale, and a incredible scale, although people in many directions, although people in many directions, I see there are just five that can be able to supply a behavior.
And then I let forces, geothermic energy, nuclear energy, biobrand and and extend to it.
And maybe something that could be able to wear it better, I expect that I expect to be able to work on every one of these five and we can't be work on each of these five and we can't make it be so unfar, because it looks like so unfar to be important difficult to be important difficult that they all have their own own own own own more important difficult to be able to be something that I think that is so unfar to be able to be something
Let's look at the fossil fuels, or burning first burning of stead, or burning coal or burning coal or burn.
What you have to do, maybe it doesn't look like that.
You have to take all the CO2 burns and make it keeps and make it happiness, and make it keeps and held it stays there.
Now there are some of the subjects that are on the level of 60 to 80 percent to 80 percent of them will be very hard to 100, but will be very hard and we have to have all that CO2 is also very hard to be very hard to be very hard to be very hard to be very hard to be a long termine problem.
Who will sure this is that sure to know?
Who will be going to be able to be able to be bigger than which is that literally you can also think of the waste of weire that can be thinking in terms of nuclear or other things?
This is a huge volume.
So that is hard.
The next one is nuclear energy.
And then we also have three big problems.
The cost of costs, with name in strong countries, his high.
The issue of safety safety that nothing can go wrong that nothing can go and be used this human operators, that the splist doesn't have this human operators can be used to nuclear weapons.
And what do you do with the waste of way?
And, although it's not so much of it is that there are a lot of worries about it.
And you have to have a good sense of it.
So three very difficult problems that are maybe and have to be working on the way to be working on the tour.
The last three of the five, I grew the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three three of the last three three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three three three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three
These are some people often call the recuriod.
And that -- although it's great that they don't required -- yet, yet some of the couple of a couple of couple of the couple of the couple of the couple of the fuel of that -- although it's not a fuel of fuel -- although it's a great to that -- although it's a great deal.
One of them is that the density of the energy of the energy by these technologies are both increasing of an electricity.
This is energile and this is energible square kilometers, thousands of miles of thousands of miles more space than you need for a normal energy centers,
And this is intermitting sources.
The sun doesn't seem to be all the day, and not seeing every day, not alway.
And so, if you dependent of these sources of sources that periods that periods that periods that they are not available.
So, we have big cost-challenges here.
We have transport challenges.
For example, this energy source outside your country is expanding the technology is but you need to do with the risk of the energy from the energy of the energy from the energy of the energy from the energy of the energy of the energy from the energy of the energy from the energy of the energy source of the energy from the energy source of the energy source of the energy from the source of the energy from the source of the energy of the energy source of energy energy from the energy source of the energy source of
And, finally, the problem of problem.
And to make that visible I looked at all the species of batteries that are made getting out of the cars, for call, for phone, for phones, for phones, for phone, and the amount of celeectrical energy that the world, and what I felt is that all the battery that all the battery that we can beat less than 10 minutes of all energy that is that all the power of energy that is going to become a dian.
So we need a big breakthrough here is a big breakthrough here is a hundred better than the approach that we have now.
It's not impossible, but it's not easy.
This is important if you try to get that unreliable source higher than 20 to 30 percent of what you use.
If you know about it for 100percent of it.
Now, how do we go forward: What is the right approach, what is the right approach.
Is it a Manhattan project? How can we achieve this?
Well, we need a lot of companies that works on it, hundreds of them.
And in each of these five pads, at least hundred people.
And many of them, you will find it. That's good. That's good.
And, I think that here in the TED group, we have a lot of people who are already explore this already already for this.
Bill Gross has different companies, which has a genuincluded that great thermal thermazing technologies.
Vinod Khosla invests in 10 companies companies that are doing things and interesting possibilities, and I have to support that.
Nathan Myhrvold and I use a company that, maybe surprisingly, nuclear energy.
There are some retaws in nuclear, modules, and liquid and liquid of nuclear power.
And there is no innovation in this industry in this industry in this industry is not so strange that there are good ideas.
The idea of Terrapower is that, instead of just a little color, instead of just to use the tiny U.235, we decided to use the 999, we decided to use the 99999,
A little strange idea.
And you have ever been talking about this but they could never be good or simulating or it would work.
But by the commissioning of supercomputers can now, and you have today.
With the right materials will probably work.
And because you use the 999999, the cost human.
You use it -- you can use it as burned all the overaged survival reactors.
So instead of care, supposed that new fuel of fuel.
It uses this uranium in the response. It looks like a map.
You see in this animation, often be a lot of reactor reactor reactor reactor reactor reactor reactor reactor reactor reactor reactor reactor of this wave wave --
For the fuel of the fuel of fuel.
I have a picture of a place in Kentucky.
This is core nuclear waste percent, where the 10-percent is hall.
So it's called uranium.
That's enough for hundreds of years.
And by a cheap way they get seawater seawater and you get enough burning for the life of the whole planet.
So, there are a lot of challenges for the future, but it's an example of the hundreds and hundreds of ideas that we need to go forward.
So let's think how do we measured ourselves?
How should we look at it out of it.
Let's look at the time we have to come out where we have to come up to the senside.
For 2050, speaking many people about 80 percent reduction.
And that it's really important to get that.
And that 20 percent will be used by poor countries, a part of agricultural agricultural agriculture.
And hopefully we have clean farbook and cement.
So, to get those 80 percent have to developed countries, including countries like China, their electricity production -- their electricity is all clean electricity all along the end.
And the other dist: Passes we excited, and we are technology in all developed countries, and we are that introduce?
That's super important.
That's a major measure for that report.
So, how do it must be report for 202020-look like report to look like it?
Well, it must be following two eises.
We have to reduce that efficiency the excitement of the excited.
The less we disseminder the CO2 gets the CO2 gets and so the temperature.
But in some ways, the decade that we cut through things that we care of doing things that don't bring us to the great flaws, just event, or maybe even less important, or maybe even less important, that's the piece of innovation on this speaks on this spsparies on this spspeaks on this spspeaking.
And these speeding, we have to speed, and we can measure that measured in terms of business, regular things that changed his own packaged things that changed.
Here's a big number of beautiful books about it.
The book of Al Gore, "Our Keuic," and the book of David McKay book, "Duurzame Energy is under the hot air."
They reward the really good and they have a cader that this can be decided to cover this in big lines here because we have to get a broad to this broad for a wire for this.
There is a lot of that has to come together.
So this is a wish.
It's a very concrete wishs that we invented these technology technology.
If you gave me one wish, I could choose choose who was president to be able to choose a vaccine, I could cooking of something that I could like something that is invented with the costs, without half of the costs, without the costs, without the CO2 -- this is the wish I could choose be cooperate the wish.
This is the one with the largest impact.
If we don't get this wish, the guiding between the people who think on short term and long term will be horrible between the U.S. and China, between poor and China, between poor and driving the lives of those two billion lives of those two billion of lives will be much worse.
So, what do we need to do?
What do I ask you ask to evolve?
We have to go for more funding of research.
If countries come together in places like Copenhas, they have to talk about the CO2.
They have to speak this innovation agency and you supposed to the increase of the promise of the innovative approach to this innovative approach.
We need markets of market, CO2-taxes taxes and handle treatment, something that the costs can make costs shape.
We need to extractly.
This dialogue has to be reduced and understanding of the steps that takes the government.
This is a major wish, but I think we can achieve it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Chris Anderson: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Now I understand more about Terrapower, OK, you can give you a sense of the investment?
Bill Gates: To do just the software the supercomputer, all the great scientists inhurt, all the great scientists inhurt and even though we have been doing a time of Russian reactor to be there in a Russian reactor to be there in the Russian reactor that our materials are going to be hundreds of millions of and hopes a lot of walking.
The hard is the hard is the construction of the experimental reactor, finding the couple of the regulator, the location to actually build such a first decreate.
And as you built the first built, as this works like advertising as considered -- it's just reconsidered by economy, the energy -- the energy as different than nuclear energy as different than nuclear energy as different than nuclear energy as different than nuclear energy as we know it.
CA: And yes, to understand it well, it's going to be building deep under the ground of nearly fuel of nuclear fuel of nuclear fuel of consumer uranium, and then it starts to the process and then it starts to the process and then it works and then it works and then it looks down to the bottom and then it looks down down to the boxes of the ground and then it is going to be build up under the ground of the ground and stone?
BG: That's right. Today, the reactor telkens are reactor counts of people and many of the control that thing you have to open and many of the control that thing you have to open and things out of it.
That's not good.
So, if you have a very cheap fuel that you can include 60 years, you think of it as a background process -- it just like a refronth process -- and not have any of that complexity.
And it just just a little year, and it burns and then it has done year and then it has done it.
CA: It's a nuclear centrale, who solved his own waste problem.
BG: Yeah. Well, what happens with the waste -- there's a lot less waste -- there's a lot less waste with this approach -- or you can actually take it away with this approach -- and you can actually go and take it out and burning it there.
And we start with the device, which is in the decades today, that is in the reactor or or is been been taken in the reactor or is taken in the reactor is to create that exist.
That's our fuel to start.
So, what a problem was from these reactors is actually what is introduced invented in the unit, and you reduce the volume of the waste behavioral dramatic by this process.
CA: But in your global conversations about these possibilities, which is most interested to do anything,
BG: Well, we have no particular place extend place to be all interesting public regulation rules on everything else called nuclear is that people from the nuclear important, so we enjoy; that people have been out of the company in Russia, China are in Russia, China have been out of the company in Russia, China have been cover,
I have the head secretary of energy about this, to talk about this to talk about how this past in the energy agenda.
So I'm optimistic. You know that the French and the Japanese and the Japanese --
This is a variant on something that was done already of something that is done
It's a big step forward, but it's like a quick reactor, and many countries they built everybody who has built a quick reactor is a quick reactor is a potential to build the first thing to build the first thing to build the first thing to build the first thing to build the first thing that has been built the first of built,
CA: So, in your mind, away-scale and probability of something like this to get to the high now?
BG: Well, we have such for such electricity of electricity in big scale things that are very cheap, we need 20 years, we have to think about 20 years, and then 20 years.
That's a kind of term that is a kind of term models we have to do our town.
And you know, Terrapower, as everything wells, which is that many people wish, that would be able to do that.
And there are now happy to do, and we need hundreds of them -- who, who, indials are equipment -- indians are going to be good as the financiation for their proinstallations well, that they can compete with this.
And it's the best as a best thing as there are multiple because then you can use from the mix of these things.
We need at least one to sleep on sleep.
CA: In terms of possible changes on big scale, is this the largest that you know it?
BG: A energy breakthrough is the very important.
That would have been that even without the environmental limitation, but the environmental constrainy is so much bigger.
In the nuclear sector also are other re-innoves.
You know, we don't know their work as good as well, but the modular people, but the modular people, which is another approach approach to it.
There is a type of fluid reactor, which seems a little bit hard like this.
So there are different, but the beauty of this is an uraniummolecule has a million times as much energy as much as a carbon molecule and so if you can deal with the negative effects, that are the radiation and the cost of negative effects, the footprint in the country and different things, in terms of effect on the country and different things, in the class in nearly entirelief, is a class of apart.
CA: If this isn't working, what is this?
Do we start to start with the regular measurements to try to keep the temperature?
BG: If you get overweight, it's as though you have overweight and the point and the point to get a heart attackaged to get a heart attacks.
Where do you go to the heart or something like that.
There is a line of research that geo-engineering -- that his different techniques that the heat of the case that we could deal with the solution that we buy to get our solution.
That's just a kind of resurance.
You hope you don't need that you can't need that.
Some people say that you don't even have to work on such a confident that you might be eating lu, because you know, you keep a hartoper to save you.
I don't know if that contended the importance of the problem, but there's now the geo-engineering discussion is -- that in the back of the case of case things for the case of case things that happen, or as the innovation is going to happen than we expect to be expected to be expected to be expected to be expected to be expected.
CA: Climaatscape ckeptics -- if you could say, how would you say it to them, how would you make it convinced to them?
BG: Well, unfortunately the scepticiptics out of different camps.
There are very few of them with scientific arguments.
And they got that negative feedback that there are negative feedback that compensing things that compensing?
There are very few things that they can still be able to be able to be a chance of one million that they can be able to deal that opened up.
The main problem that we have is like AIDS is something like AIDS.
You make the mistake, and you pay it for.
And yeah, when you have all these dringy problems, the idea behind now to get the pain to get the pain to get the advantage -- and a sense of uncertain pain.
In fact, the IPCC report is not necessarily the worst scenario, and there are people in the rich world that are going from the IPCC and say, oke, OK, and all all of the IPCC and say, okay, all of the things that are all pretty much now.
It should be that uncertainty that shows us that lets us to this.
But my dream is that, if you can make it be a way to make it a bunch of the CO2-limitations, then the CO2 scepticion, and it can't even wouldn't even wouldn't even wouldn't even wouldn't even wouldn't even wishes that there was a cheap than the cheap than the cheap is the cheap than before.
CA: And that would be your response to the argument of Bjorn Lomborg, which is actually if you spend all this energy to solve the CO2--problem, is going to be that cost of all of the CO2-farm and malaria, and malaria, and malaria, and so on.
It's a thmous waste of aid resources to spend money to spend money there as there as better things that we can do with it.
BG: Well, the real extended extended for that R&amp;D shared -- say that the U.S. 10 billion more than now -- is not so dramatic than now -- is not so dramatic -- is not so dramatic -- is not so dramatic -- is not so dramatic -- is not that dramatic.
It doesn't have to be high away to other things.
It is really just just walking in big big contains, and it can repartners, when you try something that is uneconomic, when you try to financiate something that is uneconomic,
And that is, most of course, is a waste of waste
And unless you very close to a solution and you only the teacher and you just the teacher and then it is very cheap.
I think we have to try to be more things that the potention to be much less expensive to be much less expensive to be much less expensive to be much less expensive to be a lot more more of things that are the potention to be a lot more more expensive to be a lot more more expensive.
If it comes out of which you are starting with which you will make energy super super expensive to be able to cover the power that caused to be away.
I mean, we all of this could pay five times so many of our energy without to our energy without to have to pay our lives change.
The disaster is for those two billion.
And even Lomborg is changed to be changed.
His credo now, why is not talking about R&amp;D gets
He is still still still the cooperiod of the cooperiod with the sceptical camp, but he realized that a fairly camp, but he realized that a fairly camp, and this is the R&amp;D standpoint.
And so there's a red wire that I think I think of interest.
It's funny the little bit of the R&amp;D shared --
CA: Well, I guess I suspect that I speak from the most people here here as I say, I really hope that your wise wish. Thank you very much.
BG: Thank you.
And you get some of you some months ago, I was a few months ago, when I wrote an article for the italian Wired.
I love the thesaurus to the these, when I write the these, but I was working on the stuff, and I thought I never had the word "innoce."
I read you the text of you the text.
"Invalide," pully: "Cut, helpleasure, crowd, cririb, crib, croche, crazy, croches, craft, crazy, crochad, impact of impact and catches -- depend and depended and, definitely definite, definitial, and then determined the number, extension, it also seeing, crows, and soon,
Antonice: healthy, strong capable."
I read this for a girlfriend and had to read because it was so ridiculous but the blame after "geman" began to break my voice, and I had to stop and I had to stop and then clap these words of emotional shocks, and the class that caused these words that caused words are caused to read.
Good, of course, this is a good old remember old remember,
I think this is an old pressure, now, now.
But it was a drug from the early '80s, when I started about the lag-school and an image of myself and an image of myself outside my family and the world to the other children and the world to the world around me.
I don't have to say that I was not to say that thesis a thesesaurus
And with this description seems as if I was born in a world in which someone as I was considered to say anything positive to say anything positive to say anything positive to be the opportunities and avontors that I have been done in my life in my life in my life of the abilities and I have been done in my life in my life that I have been doing in my life.
So I was immediately looking for the 2009, online edition, and expectancy a fail.
This is the became the became the became the test of text.
Jammer enough doesn't much better.
I think the last words of the last words of "Dist-straight antoni-st-straight and "completely sal."
It's not just about words.
It's about our opinion of people when we are these words.
The values behind the words, and how we construct those values behind the words, and how we construct those values behind the words, and how we construct those values.
Our language affects us think and how we think and how we look at the world and how we look at other people.
A lot of old societies that the Greeks and the Romeally and the Roman and believed that it was a fluence so powerful because if you say something hard is that it is being true.
So what do we want to be a person who is limited to be limited or a person who is?
If we do something like a little easy to be a coperate of a person, a child, then we are reperhaps, we have a shadow about their force.
Don't we rather doors for them?
Somebody who was the doors for me was my doctor when I was child at the A.I. Dupont, Institute in Wilmington, Delaware.
He's called Dr. Pizouch, Pizouch,
Italian American American -- whose name was to be able to speak out of speaking out of the speak Dr. P.
Dr. P. P. always was very colory strikdles and had precisely the good institution to work with children to work with children to work with children to work with children to work with children to work with children work.
I remember almost everything in the time I was in that hockeep with exception of the physide-sessions.
I had to do a almost until number of repetitions with that dikills of that dikastic colors -- to build my beenspiders -- to build my own spirit -- and I have to build my repeat spirit --
I hate that elastons more than everything.
I hate them, gave them took theate. I hate them,
And as a five-year-old, I was P. to come out with Dr. P. to get under that practice under that exercise --
And one day he came to a session -- exhaud, exhaud, and genadelivery -- and he said, "Wow. Aimee, you are such a strong, powerful girl, you know, I think you will take this elastic casure.
If you let me give you a hundred dollars I give you hundred dollar."
Of course this was a tactical of Dr. P, to me to do the exercise that I didn't want to do with the end, I would not do with the fast five-year-old, but what he was actually for me that he was a new, but what he did was a new, in a new -- far, far, far, far, far, far, far, following experience.
Today, I wonder in the corner are vision and his degree and his demand that I was a powerful girl -- my self-image has formed an inherent morting, and powerful person to the future.
This is an example of how adults in power sposities can be able to wake the power of a child
But in the last situations of that thesesaurus-textest our language to the evolution that we all would like to see reality that we all would like to see themselves to see themselves as an capable.
Our language is following the changes in society and many of that are not a lot of that technology.
With name, from medical point, my legs, my legs, my legs, couldness, and cneeded for anium and cooking for old body ancient to their ability to destroy and make it more people with the ability to their potentified by nature and restraining the way to their social reperspectified to describe the world, in which people can describe with the world's groups to defying with the world's groups and that they can desticultifth with the world, and they can describe able to described with the world, and they can dest-avult with the world, and so forforforttind that they can describe able to destignormaglobal grat, and make it with the world, and that they can deston
So maybe a lot of technology is now showing us a lot of truth has been an truth: that everybody has something extraordinary and something powerful has something more powerful and ability to adapty.
The ability of human being being able to apply interesting, because everyone wants to talk to me about the overcome consider to talk about over-contradiction and I'm going to know anything.
And that sense me never been really, and it was never very easy to answer the questions of people to answer the questions of people and I began to get the question of people who have been able to answer the questions of people who have been able to answer the questions.
The frame of "the overcome optraining of the case that success is that success or happiness that means you go back and have a challenging experience, without a sheet of a pair of life in life with artists to have the ability to be the decline pushing to the desire pend the past pushing of a life with artifying and depends like my handicappear.
But in fact, we are changed by a challenge of course, we are drawn by a challenge, or now, emotional or both is physically, emotional or both is.
And my point is that a good thing to do.
Teches is not obstacle that we need to live in and can live in the way.
It's a part of our life.
I have tend to see it as my shadow.
Sometimes I see a lot of them, sometimes very few of it, but it's always in me.
I'm not going to sure the impact and the importance of someone's going to restire.
There is a contradiction and challenge in life, and it's all really and everyone else, but the question is not before you have to go and get to up, but how you go to go and go and suggests to go and take it up and do it.
So our responsibility is not simply our nearest protecting to protect to be good to protect to go to to it.
We don't have the service as we don't feel that they don't feel that they're not able to adit that they don't stop to address it.
There's a major difference and underestimate between the objective fact that I am an amputeed and the subjective society is whether I won't invited the opinion of whether I won't inside the end.
And actually, the only real hands that I came up with the world that I came up with the world that was always that you could describe me with that definitions.
In our desire to protect our neighborhood facts of their medical facts of their medical progame of their medical quality of life, we need to be sure that we don't really have the first stone that we don't really have the first stone that we really don't really indeed to make someone to really instant to make someone to really indeed to protect the first stone with them
Maybe the current way of looking at what is is going to repair and how to repair and how to repair it, someone more invalue than the pathology.
By not deal of the universal of a person didn't recognize their strong, not to recognize a new disease on the such that they may have already new disease that they may already have been able to recognize it.
In fact, we add the ors of the value of our society for our society.
So we have to look at the pathology of human capability of human ability of human ability.
The very important thing is that there is a collaboration between that visible textoration and our best creative power.
It's not about that hard to devalue those hard or to devalue or to devalue or under the floor, but to discover that possibilities to discover that possibilities to discover the opportunities of the opportunities.
And maybe the idea that I want to reduce that you don't have to recommend that you have to be sure that you have to open for it, but you have to open the restion, maybe even though thing, maybe even though though to use it with.
If we see consistent as natural as a consistent and useful, we might feel less by the way, we feel fewer by being had.
And this year, we four year-old birthday of Charles Darwin, and when he wrote 150 years ago, I think, a fact Darwin the human character.
And they took the strongest kind of that survive survive, nor the most intelligent, but the kind of the best thing to be able to change the best thing to change.
Conflict is the genesis of creation.
Another of Darwin's work we can make that the human ability to survive and pull the human capacity is being conflicts through conflicts to transformation.
Again, transformation, transformation, which is our biggest ability.
And until we don't know what we aren't know what we aren't what we are.
And the one of the one that reports our consciousness, a sense of our own force.
So we were able to give ourselves a cadecades.
We can imagine remaining us as a couple of the case of time.
Maybe we can see it as change.
Tech, is changed to approach.
I think the most important opportunity that we have given ourselves the understanding of the normality."
Who is there normal?
There is no normal.
There is just just a normal. There is a normal. There is no normal.
And who would be who would like to meet that points to be like """even?
I don't think it's not a little bit of it.
If we can get the paradigm to normality to normality to be able to deal of possibilities, or potention, chiets-supply of many more children instant to be a lot more of more kids, and they extended their rard-by-boards with the community.
Anthropologists tells us that the only thing we need to have our group of our group of our group of our group of our group of the group of our group of useful that we need people to have a group of useful that we have to have a lot of useful genots are useful genogiven us the only thing that we are useful.
There are attention that Neanderthalers were 60,000 years ago, their parents and reminded up their parents and survive life servation and survive life of value for the community and survive to be built and useful as a broken and useful as the rare and values; they were seeing as rare and valuable to be as rare and valuable.
A few years ago, I was on the market in the village that I grew up in the north piece in north Pennsylvania, and I was both on a tros.
It was summer. I had a short breed.
I heard a man behind me "If Aimee Mullins don't is."
I turned around, it was an older man. No idea who he was an idea who he was in the way.
I said, "Pardon, do we know each other? I can't remember that.
He said, "It's good possible that you don't know that we know each other.
When we meet me come to you out of your mother."
Oh, that fat.
And of course, when the quarters --
This guy was doctor Kean, a man who I just know about all my mothers my mothers of that day, because I was really two weeks for my own birthday.
Morther's mother's prentice was already on vahand, so the man who was really a weird for my parents.
And because I was born and without shee-byet food and a few tens, and a few tens, and a few tens, and a few tens, and a few tens, and a bad news.
He said, "I had to go and say, "I had to go and walk you could never walk, and never wouldn't walk, and never have the movement freedom that other children and totally couldn't have lived life and totally independent living to be a fun.
The particularly told is he told him that he has collected collective my childhood and the case was that I was a game for the second classroom in the second classroom in the second classroom with the pursus of Hat, my university winner -- or one of my sportion and he used it in his integrated in his sporders, and the integrated to Herahmans students at Hahn students at Hahn school.
Of course, the x-factor, the potential of the human will.
No progresis can predict how powerful this can be as a certain factor, for the quality of someone's life.
Do Kean went on and he said, "I think that if it's not contradicted that, if it's not contradicted contradicted and even with only constening, a child will reach something.
You see, doctor, who had been thinking has changed thinking
He understood that is a difference between the medical condition and what someone could do with it.
And in the course of time my thinking about, if you had asked me as 15-year-old, or I would have asked my art or I would not have doubt my art for real legs -- I had no moment --
I used to pursuch a normality.
If you ask me that I don't know it yet.
That's because of the experiences that I had not been the experienced not despite the experiences that had with it.
And I think this is changed because I'm expowered to people who have been exposed to people who have been excited for me then to those who wanted to be limited to those who wanted to agree and dapted to me and days.
Look, you know, you just one human that shows you the opening of your own force, and you go from that.
If you can give someone the key to his own force, the human mind is so until as you can open if you can open a door for someone can open a door for someone can open a door for someone can open them up.
You learn to open.
The exact meaning "education" stem of "education" stem of "education."
That means that what is is bringing inside of the forward, potential to extrit to ext.
So again, which potential we want to bring outside,
There was a case-study in the '60s in England, where they went from gymnasia to school.
The hot called streaming "streaming the U.S. we call it "next States.
They divide students in 10, 9, 7, 7, and so on.
The 10-students have a hard to get a hard to be a hard to do,
And then a three months of three months they gave 4-students a students were a 10, and they were told that they were 10, and they were intelligent intelligent to be intelligent and they were intelligent a 10, and they were told to 10, and they were told in the end.
On the end of the three months they were at 10-level.
The heart pursue of this study is that they were the 10-students that they were told the 10-students were told celebrate --
And that also happened to three months.
Those who were still in school, next to the people who had gotten down.
A crucial part of this research was that the teachers were also kept to the teachers were also kept to the teachers were also kept to the get.
The teachers didn't knew that there was something that was refrigeration
And there was tell: these are the students with teens, this one with fours.
And they went and then they were so treats treats them,
I think the only real hands is a cnaked a cnaked a cnaked crazy doesn't know.
He doesn't see a beauty.
He's the natural curiosity of our news are not to regular as well-engineering to imagine.
If we can reinstead of the mind to keep hope, to keep hope, to be able to see beauty and others, to see others and fantasy and fantasy and fantasy our power to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be newell.
If a mind this qualities in the qualities of this qualities to create new real, new ways of creating ways to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to create new ways of really,
I want to close with a poem by a rearti-century Persian poems, Haf, wheret, Haf, far my friend Jacques Demish.
The poem is called "The god that only knows four words of know."
"Each child doesn't know the God of almost of neeine -- not the God of do, but the God doesn't know the God who knows only know four words he says, "thank you with me. Come, thank you with me.
Thank you.
