A few years ago, Peter Skillman here, at TED, at TED, a design competition.
The marshmallow-challenge.
The idea is pretty simple: Groeps of four to make a so high possible to be able to create a dously, a meter carpon and a marshmallow, a marshmallow.
The marshmallow to up.
And, although it sound, it turns out, it turns out, because this assigns people to work together very quickly together.
And because I found this an interesting idea, I decided, I decided to take it up in a design design workshop.
And it was a big success.
Since then, I have this exercise in about 70 design workshops around the world with students, designers and architects and architects and architects of Fortune 50-companies.
And this exercise gives us deep insights in how people work together, and I want to share with you.
Normally, is the first step that people are preparing on the cause.
They're talking about, and they're going to look at it.
Then they're going to organized.
They're sketches and spaghettile.
Most of the time they build increasing bigger building.
And at the end, when the time is almost of time is taking someone the marshmallow him to put it careful up on the top, do a step back and ... Oh, yeah!
They're amazing their work.
But what really happens, most most of them is that the "tting" in a oh oh oh," because the weight of the marshmallow the entire building.
Bepal people have more of those "oh oh oh moments than others.
And what of the worst are only graded, with a MBA.
They're going to play fallers, and they make it pretty extremely building.
And then, of course, there are teams that make a lot more "tasy building.
And with the best of those are graded.
That is just impressive.
And Peter tells us, that they make not just the highest of the most interesting.
So what do you suggest: How can this: How can this? Why?
Peters answer is: "None of the children spills to be time the boss of the Spaghetti BV." Jist.
They're not wasting play time with power game games.
But there's another reason.
And that is that economists and trained to find the only right solution.
And then they're going to do it.
But what happens, when they put the marshmallow the marshmallow, is that they don't have time.
It's a disaster.
Sounds known, certain?
And what little biggers do,
is that they start with the marshmallow.
They build prototypes, and new prototype,
increasing the marshmallow up, so they have more opportunities to repair prototypes.
Designers recognize this shape of collaboration as the basis of an iterative process.
In every version of every version of the children measures of what does not work.
So building prototypes is very important.
But let's see how different teams.
The average for most people is about 50 cmix.
Here's the economists of the lawyers, it's not much better, but not much better.
Colderers, better than most of the adults.
Who does it spend the like?
Architects and engineers, happy.
And the highest building was a high.
And why? Because they understand triangles, and self-extincite medical structures are the key to build stable.
CEOs, something better than average.
But now it gets interesting: if you put a secretary in the team of team.
Remember, you see the team and thinking, "those are going to win.
And you can see that from teach. And why?
Because they are good at support to support.
They're manad, understanding the process.
And every team that is good regulars and attention.
Gespecialized and supporting skills together.
And if you have a normal 10 teams this will have a city to have the six a city.
And I tried something interesting.
I thought, we make it a little exciting.
So I'm going to winning 10,000 dollars on software from the winning team.
And what do you think these design students did?
What happened?
The next thing.
No one team had a city building.
Like a tower -- for example, a totally centimeter, was enough to win.
Interestingly that a higher impully.
We've repeared with the same students.
And what do you think it happened?
So now they understand the use of prototypes.
And this team changed the worst team in one of the exist.
They made the highest building in the least time.
So that's a good lesson for us the nature of rewards and success.
You might you wonder, why, why would anybody like to spend time to write a marshmallow challenge?
The reason is, I work with digital tools and processes and processes to help teams in building cars, computer games and visual effects.
And the marshmallow-challenge helps them to get the hidden behind.
Because, fairly said, every project has his own marshmallow, right?
And the challenge of a part of experience, a common language, a common language, a common language, to make the best prototype of prototype.
And so that's the value of the experience of this so simple exercise.
And for who are interested in order to marshmallowed to marshmallow.com.
And on this blog you can see how to build the mashmallows.
There are standing of the step of stapinstructions.
There are examples of how people all around the world's tricks.
There are also global records.
And the fundamental lessis, I think that design is really a contactsport.
And it required the inside of all our senses, and that we feel very best thinking and execution for the challenge of challenge for the challenge of all of our senses.
And sometimes a tiny prototype of this experience to be enough to change.
And that makes a big difference.
Thank you very much.
So let's just suppose that we have a great machine, a great machine, a great machine, a great machine, a very great machine, a while machine.
And everybody.
And you can remain time or forward in time, but not here and now.
I am legged what you might choose because I have all this question to all this question all of friends and they want to go back.
They all want to go back to time before cars or Twitter or "American Idol,"
I don't know.
I am convinced that there is a certain hand.
And I can get in there.
But I don't hear there, I have to say.
I don't want to go back, and not because I'm so adventured -- but it's possibilities -- but it's possibilities of this planet.
They're not going to go forward.
So I also want to be in the machine and I want to go forward.
We live in the great time on this planet on the planet on the planet on the planet on this planet on the planet on this planet, opportunities, opportunities of diseases.
Never had been like this.
My major grandparents all around the 60.
My grandparents have all the 70.
And my parents are already in the 80.
And so I have to take a piece in the 90.
But it's not just about us.
There is much more on the game.
A child that today in New Delhi is born has a life expectation to that of the richest man in the world 100 years.
Think about that. That's an incredibly fact.
And why is that true?
The smallpox. The smallpox. The planet.
They had an impact on the demography of this world bigger than that of any war.
But they're not exist. They're gone away.
We have it over. We have them over.
In the wealth world existence, which is a generation of millions of people threatened as well.
Difteria, childhood --
anyone here knows what that was?
Inentations, modern medicine our opportunities to prevent billions of food method to prevent billions of the scientific method.
And for me, the scientific method, the scientific method, and it doesn't works and it doesn't works and not leave indionals, one of the biggest away of humanity.
That's the good news.
But sptiely enough is that the only good news because there are some other problems because there are a couple of other problems, and one of them is that, despite all our amazingly, there are always a billion people hungry to the world, every day.
Their number of number of it, and it take, and it take, and that's a shape.
And not only that, we have a imagination of the world that we used our imagination to refrent this world.
Drinkable water, agricultural rainforests, oil, oil, and they're disappear, and if we are going to be able to work, and we will disappear.
And the question is this: Can we think about that?
And I think it's clearly that we are able to be able to make food for billions without the country without the country that we live in.
I think we can imagine this world of energy forms that couldn't help it in the destruction of the destruction.
I believe that one, no, that's not a wish.
But now is that what I'm wacking at night -- one of the things that I wake up at night.
Now, we've ever been so dependent on the scientific advancement, and we never have been able able to make use, and we have never been able to make use, as we can.
We are on the threshort of the most amazingly amazing advancement.
And yet, I really think that we have hundreds of years, say, but 300 years, you have to go back to the time of the United State, to find a time we take away to progress, that we have these innovation regions of heart and more area,
People are hanging their faith with such heart stuntil that it is impossible to free them.
And listening, everybody has right on his own people; everyone has the right, everyone has the right, but you know where you have no right, but you know where you have no right?
You don't have a right on your own facts. No, that you don't have that you have not.
And I did a while about it.
A teental years ago I wrote a story about inentions for "The New Yorker," a short story.
I was amazing amazing opposite to find the most effective measured for the public health in history.
I don't know what I do, so I wrote a story about it, and I just wrote it.
I wrote a story about genetic manipulated food.
You know the same, but still worse this.
People were crazy.
So I also wrote there a story, and I couldn't understand why people found this food, why people found this food, why they thought it was manipulating molecules in a touch, instead of an accidentally, instead of the nature was a retraction against the nature was a retraction against the nature was a story,
But, you know, I do what I do. I wrote a story and went to the order of the day. I'm now a journalist; we're going to eat the time, we're going to eat and that's that.
But these stories kept me, I couldn't do but I couldn't be able to do why, but eventually well.
And because that was fanatics that made me in fact, which made me was not fanatics.
They were considered wrong, fatsoon.
It's like the people in this room.
And it was just that what I didness.
but then I thought, you know, let's be honest, we are in this world in this world that we don't come up to this world that we haven't been the same progress as well.
We're talking about tweslayers.
We speak ironic as between across crows.
"Fore."
OK, there are reasons and I think that we know it.
We're lost the belief institutions in the science and then in science and in the science, and there is no reason not a reason.
You just have to fall a couple of names and people understand it.
Tsjernobyl, Bhopal, the Challenger, Viox, mass destruction, mass destruction of weapons, not very well through ponskills ...
And I mean you can put together yourself.
There are problems and problems with those people that we thought they were always right.
So Wees skeptic.
Imal questions, ask and evidence evidence.
But now, if you get evidence, you have to address it and we don't take it and there we are not so good at that.
And the reason I can say that is that we can now be in a unprecisely unprecise and we hope that we hope to be so flew as possible.
About 12 years, there was a terrible story that was an awed story that an amazing between the epidemic, and the inention of autism and the inention of making and rodehd.
Again a natural.
Hopoping studies were invented to go whether this was true.
And that had to be a serious thing.
And the data came up with it.
They were found in the United States, in England, in England, in Canada, in Canada, and everywhere in Canada, not in the United States.
But it wasn't doing not allowed to do it because we believe, we believe what we think about anecdotes, we believe what we think, and what we think about and what we really think about how to feel --
We can't have a lot of papers a lot of papers from an official government that data, and I can come out in there, and I can come up with that, and I think we all can.
But you know what?
And the consequences were disaster, disaster, and the fact: The United States are one of the few countries in the world where the number of inents in the world where the number of inenties in the world where the number of inents in the world where the mays.
And that's a scance, and we should be shaming.
it's a terrible.
What's going to deal with us that we could deal with?
Now, I understand it. I understand it. I understand it.
Who is going to get may?
Does anyone of this audience?
Combs don't of.
And here already not anymore, but it happened last year 160,000 times in the world.
That's a bunch deaths by maybe, 20 per hour.
But because it doesn't happen to be able to include the end, and people like Jenny McCarthy McCarthy McCarthy and inscience and inscience and under Larry King Larry Live Larry King Live Larry King Live Live.
And they can do that because they can't make sure between the causes and walk together.
They're not understanding that these things seem to be practical.
And that is something that we need to learn and we have to learn to learn to learn to learn to lear.
This guy was a hero, Jonas Salk.
He free us of one of our worst things.
No far, no death fight, away. Polio, pood, away.
And that guy in the middle of the middle.
It's called Paul Offit.
He developed a vaccine against the rotavirus together with some other people.
It saved the lives of about 400,000 children in the third world.
Good, right?
Well it is good, except that Paul around members of vaccines, and how valuable they are.
and that people should be able to keep with it.
And so he says it says the ook.
So Paul is a terror.
If he lots a public toward a public towards.
He gets the home phone calls because there are people who are price to say that they know where his children.
And why? Because Paul has developed a vaccine.
I don't have to say it, but vaccines are immediate.
Take it away and the disease, terrible disease, and that is what happens to be to happen.
We've got maglics back in this country.
And it gets still get, soon.
And they're not going to do not just maybe.
What with polio? Why not?
A former measure student wrote me a few weeks, and said that they found me a few weeks,
No one has ever said that.
She wasn't leaving her child at all.
In no case.
Good.
Why? Because we have no polio more. And you know what?
Yesterday, not a polio here.
But, who knows, who knows, maybe someone on an airplane in Lagos Angels, and he fly flies up to Los Angels, he's now above Ohio.
Within a couple of hours a weain and comes to Long Beach, where he's going to go to Long Beach, where he's going to go into Long Beach.
And he didn't realize that he decided to have a paralyzing disease, and we don't know it because it's going to be that.
That's the planet that we live in. That's the planet doesn't help up.
We're going to let us rather includes. And we love it.
Does everyone is swell?
Echinacea, a little antioxidant to the day.
I know it because half of the Americans do it every day.
They're smarching it and they use alternative medicine, and it doesn't matter how often we discover that they're value.
The data, the data always point it again.
They're going to make your urine. And they never have any more than that.
OK if you want to spend 28 billion dollars for darker urine, Dan is that just like this.
Donch urine.
Why do we do that? Why do we do that? I understand hate Big Pma.
We hate the government. We married that politics.
That must be able to be health provisions --
They're that for millions of our countries.
They're amazingly, they're amazing hearts and resting even for those of us that they can be able to permitters.
So we are walking away from it, and where are we walked to?
We are jumping in the poor of Big Placebo.
Da's great. I love Big Placebo.
But, you know, this is very because the entire pursuit and we give billions of dollars.
I brought some of those things.
Ginkgo, chinea chinacea, chiney, acai, I don't know what that is, but we give you some billions of dollars on it, all cheat.
And you know what? If I tell this game people against me, and they say, "What can you shell? Let the people shelling? Let the people do? Let the people do.
They're feeling."
And you know what? You're wrong.
Because it cannot be able to whether the secretary of health service that says, "Hh, I'm not going to give you a consequence, "Hh, I'm not going to make mammographs.
or some cancery caught salver that will be patients.
If you begin to replace with evidence and science by belief and magic than finally you want to get to extend to be true.
Then you get in the South Africa of Thabo Mbeki.
He's responsible for the death of 400,000 of his people by confront and quoil and quoil, and quote and quote the antiviral resources.
Hundreds of thousands of notable in a country that already has been taken by this disease.
Don't tell me that these things.
They have them alway. They have them alway.
Now the most thought, is the most attention that we are now in the absurd that we are the absurde of genetic engineered food and the organic elity."
It's an idiot debat. It has to stop it.
It's about metaphor.
It's ideology, not a science.
Everything that we eat, every shorrely shratches, every single letopy, every single brushes spry, every single person
And if you think that were in the physics."
There was no watermeloes.
Even a Christmas bombs. They all come from us.
We created them in the last 111,000 years.
Some of those products and some of those products and others didn't get it.
We discovered us what we were discovered us.
Now we can do the same in a more recording way.
And, certainly, there are risks.
But we can produce vitamine vitamine and can be able to live and longer.
You don't want to do it?
I have to say, that I don't understand it.
We don't want a genetic modified food.
And why?
Well, you hear the whole time.
We don't like companies that take patents on living patents on living things.
We don't want companies the ownerships.
And you know what I response?
You know, you have to do. Let's do something about it.
It's true. It's true food problem is overwhelming, but that's not a science.
It has nothing to do with science.
And this is going to be launch, patents.
Science is not a society.
No country.
Even idea; it's a process.
It's a process and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't work and sometimes.
But the idea that we have to store the science to do her work because we are really working for it because we really really have lowered and millions of people are hearing to any well.
You know, the next 50 years, in the next 50 years, we will need more food than today.
70 percent.
This graphic is the graph of the investment in Africa for the last 30 years.
Scandalig. Schandaly.
They really need it to remember it.
And the reason? Genetically.
We don't want people to want people not want people to cassave for example, for example,
Cassave is the daily food of a half billion people; it seems what it looks like the potatoles.
It has only a lot of calories. Warls a lot of calories.
And it contained not a nutritions like proteins, and scientists are enough to do something about that.
So that people can eat it.
They wouldn't remember, and you know what?
And it would be fine haut, it wouldn't be a haut, but it would be fin.
And everything I have to say is this: Why are we contrast it?
I mean, let's ask ourselves: why are we contravic?
Because we don't want to create with gence?
And this is going to be reverse to make sure with chemicals.
And not with our ridiculous passion for hormones, our desire to more, better and special eat.
It's not about Rice Krispies, it's about Rice Krisps,
and it's going to start to understand what that wants to say.
Because you know what?
If we don't do it and go through as we are guilty as we are nothing that we don't want to be nothing to be now, high-tech colonialism.
I don't think that I don't like to describe this better.
It's self-oxiously, and we need to do something about it.
So after this incredibly engaged including maybe you want to say, "You want to say, "You want to say, "You always want to go and travels for?"
Absolutely I want that.
Now it's still in the hot of the universe, but we have an amazing opportunity.
We can do that time machine for everything we want to use.
We can bring them to a future that we want, and we're also going to bring them to where we want.
We need to continue with these excitements and we need to keep thinking but if we step and forward forward that we have done, we will have done.
I know that we can do it, and that is, for what to me, something that has to know.
Thank you.
Thank you.
A columnist of the Los Angeles Times...
Steve Lopez, walking on a day.
by the center of Los Angeles...
when he heard beautiful music.
And it came from a guy.
A black man.
Charmant, lost cases.
HIs played on a violin the violin and two strength.
I'm telling something that many of you all know.
because the columns of Steve was the basic ...
for a book that a film.
Robert Downey Jr. plays the role of Steve Lopez.
and Jamie Foxion that Nathaniel Anthaniel Anthony Ayers:
the classic was the classistance,
that are farmed career had to determine ...
because he was suffering schizophrenia.
Nathaniel stop the Juilliardconservatorium, distort --
and 30 years later he swwell, he was hunting ...
by the poorest streets of Los Angeles.
You'd have to read or the film.
Not just for the beautiful band ...
that was the two guys.
But also to see what role play --
a instrumental roll, if I say that this is so magic.
to get Nathaniel of the street.
I met Ayers in 2008.
two years ago, in a Disney-concertlement.
And he had been listened to an execution of the 1st and 4th symphony of Beethoven,
and the backstage and backstages.
He talked to a jovial and social ways.
about Yo-Ma and Hillary Clinton.
HIy said that the Dodgers never the World Series.
Everything about a hard of a hard fiddom.
in the last part of the fourth symphony of Beethod.
We're talking about music. Later I got a mail of Steve-...
that Nathaniel that Nathaniel of will.
You have to know that Nathaniel don't want to be treated.
And when he was treated treated shock therapies ...
a chlorpromazine and handbook-...
and that has drawn for his lifetime.
And the result is that he has now.
numbers of schizophrenia.
Actually, the worst attacks.
and it suddenly ...
and he disappear.
He sworks on the street ...
and lives with that narity and the worder in his head ...
that sequence.
Nathaniel invented in such such such state ...
And when we began to our first lesses.
He had a manical gue in their eyes.
He was disappeared.
He talked about ...
invisible demons and crazy ...
and someone who wanted him to be a sleep.
I was scene.
Not for myself, I was afford ...
I would get him ...
that he would go away in such an attacks,
and that I would be relationship with the violin --
And if I started talking about shows ...
and arpeggios and other example ...
from what you learn to teaches.
So I began to play.
I played the first part of the vioolconcert of Beethod.
And while I play ...
I saw a clearly changed --
in the eyes of Nathanile.
It was as though an invisible medicine his work.
A chemical response for which my play ...
the catalyzed.
The manical excitement of Nathaniels.
changed in understanding.
In disilled curiosity.
And if by a wonder he set out of his own violins,
and began to play with playing.
Bepal fragments of vioolconcerten...
that I had to decreate and Mendels --
Tchaikovsy, Sible.
We started talking about music -- Bach...
Beethoven and Brahmas ...
Bruckner, all Bs.
From Bart to Esa-Pekka Salonen.
I saw in that he wasn't all ...
a encyclopedic musical musical knowledge,
but that he was personally died by that music.
He was talking about the same passion,
and the same understanding as I and my colleagues ...
from the Los Angeles Philharmonic.
And by making music and talk about music and talk about music --
was this guy changed ...
of the paranoid guy --
that directly of the states,
from Los Angeles,
in a charman,
brilliant classic music.
Music gene: Music changes us.
For Nathaniel is music a healthy mind.
And by music he can be able to be thought,
and severtions --
through his fantasy and creativity ...
in reality.
And that's how it seem.
his getting attacks.
I saw in that that the essence of art.
That's why we make music.
And that we take something that in all of us,
in our core.
Our emotions.
And that we learned our artistic learning ...
through our crativity that emotions can reform to reality.
The reality of that expression,
and reaches all us.
We are getting up, inspired and multiply.
Nathaniels.
It was a group of music back.
The saving force of music brought him.
in a family of musicians
that he was understood ...
These are talents talents ...
and that him respected.
I'm going to keep music with Nathanile.
Or it now Walt Disney Concert Hall is ...
or on the street. He remember,
why I have become musician --
Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Robert Gupta.
I want to play something that I was shooms of celles.
First me.
I'm Jane McGonigal. I'm a game designer.
Al 10 years, I make games.
And my purpose for the next decades to make it easy to save the world to save the world in real life as games.
Now, I have a plan, and that plan, and that plan to be more people, you all including more time to spend more time to spend more time to spend more time.
At this moment we play three billion hours a week online games.
Some of you probably, some of you probably, "That's a lot of time to play games --
Maybe a lot of time, perhaps there so much important problems in the real world that people have to solve.
But actually, I think my research at the Institute For the Toe, which is the opposite is where the opposite is true.
Three billion hours a week is not enough to solve the world's dry problems.
More -- I believe that if we want to survive the next century on this planet, that we have to be incredibly increase.
I calculated that we need in totally 21 billion hours a week.
And that's probably a strange idea, so I'm going to leave it again, I'm going to leave it again.
If we want problems to solve problems like hungry, climate change, global conflict, worldwided conflict, I believe that we have to try to play we'll be able to try to play wealthy the end of the next decade of the next decades.
This is the reason. This photograph, this photograph, why games are so important for the future of humanity.
This is a portrait by a photograph, Phil Tolean.
He wanted the emotion of the games.
So he put a camera for gamers while they play.
And this is a classic emotion to the games.
Now, if you're not a gamber, you'll probably some nuances in this photograph.
You probably see the feeling of pressure, but also intense intense concentration, a deep focus to solve a very difficult problem.
If you are a gamber, you'll have a couple of nuances here is the eyes and mouth and mouth is a sign of optimism.
The wishs craws to be a sign of surprise.
This is a gamber who is going to be called an epic stor."
Ah, you know that. Okay, good.
So we have a couple of gamers.
A "epic win" is an outcome, which is so incredibly positive, that you didn't know that it was possible.
It was almost not to imagine.
And when you are surprised to discover what you really art. That's an epic story. That's an epic story.
This is a gamber on the point of an epic win."
And this is the face that we have to look at millions of problem solving around the world, while we try to deal the next century of the next century of the next century.
And the face of someone who expected to all expectations in the point is a "epic story.
But unfortunately, we see this face in the daily of the daily that we are trying to packaged problems.
This is what I call it "I call Ben God in the Leven" --
And this is I actually does it does. Can you can see it? Yeah.
And this is I'm going to be the "I Niet God in the Leven" --
This is a piece graffiti in my old neighborhood neighborhood in Berkeley, California, where I did in the real life.
And this is a problem that have a lot of gamers.
We don't feel that we are not just good at the reality as we are in games in reality as we are in games are in reality as we are.
And I mean not just successful, even though that there is part of it.
And we reached it in games. But I mean, but I mean, but I also mean with good motivate to do something, inspired to work together.
And when we are in a game world, I believe that most of us the best version of our best version of ourselves, the most likely to help.
the most likely to keep as long as it needed to stay to stay for a failure.
And if we have a fail, a crime crip, when we are confronted with hinder, we don't feel so often feel so on.
We're feel overwhelming our overwhelming our overwhelming us.
We feel fear, maybe depressed, maybe depressed, or cynical.
We never have that feelings as we play games as we play.
they just don't exist in games.
So that's what I wanted to study when I was a student.
What part of games is the impossible we feel like we can't achieve everything.
How can we take those feelings of games and remain the real world?
So I looked games like Word or Warcraft, which is really the ideal cooperative environment to solve.
And I began to notice some business that "epic wins" in the online world.
The first thing that I noticed is that every time you get in one of those online games -- especially Warcraft, there are very much different characters that you love a world-saving mission that you like to address a world-saving mission mission --
But not just a mission, a mission, a mission, a perfect that is adapted to your level in the game. Jist?
So, you can do it.
They're never given you a challenge that you can't attention.
But it is the extremely of your opportunities. So you have to try hard.
But there is no employment in World or Warcraft.
You can't be something.
There is always something specific and important.
And there are a lot of contributgers.
Every place where you go, there are hundreds of thousands of people who are willing to help your epic mission to bring your epic mission mission mission.
And that's something that we have to be very difficult, that sense that within fact, that there are very much collabor.
And also that there is an epic story, this inspiring story that we are here and what we do.
And then all the positive feedback that we get.
You've been heard of a level engineering and plus-a force, and plus-an intelligence.
Son' constant fact that we don't get the real life.
When I went to this stage from this stage of stage, I'm not going to get a speak of plus-20 several idea, plus-20 number idea.
I don't get in the real life. I don't get in real life.
Now, the problem with collaborative online worlds like World of World of World or Warcraft is that it's such the time at the point of a "epic story, that we decide all our time to such this online games all our time to spend all our time.
It's just better than the reality.
Finally, World of World or Warcraft players, all too 5.93 million years.
Now, that's not necessarily anything.
It sounds maybe bad it.
To clearly clearly, 5,93 million years ago, our first human prevent for the first human for.
And that was the first right. And that was the first right.
Okay, so if we talk about the amount of time that we invest in playing games, is the only way it has in the sense of the human evolution, is the only way it has to think about time in the context of the human evolution, which is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary, which is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing that is an extra
But it's also games, because it turns out that we, by spending so many time to play from games, we do as many time to play that we are as human.
We evolve to a kind of cooperative and opright.
This is true. I believe this.
So, I think about this interesting.
And it was recently by a researcher of the Carnegie Mellon University published.
The average young person today, in a country with a country with a major culture, 10,000 hours have been taken by the time he is 21 years old.
Now, 10,000 hours is a very interesting digit for two reasons.
First of all, for children in the United States is 10.80 hours the exact amount of time that you spends at school from the fifth teaching years to you graduate if you are all the time.
So we have an equally appear of education where young people are learning about the gamount of as they do about all the rest in school.
Some of you probably have Malcom Malcom Gladwell's book Outliers."
So you probably heard of his successful, the 10,000 hours success.
It's on this amazing, cognitive scientific research, that says that if we can have 10,000 hours of useful to be able to control the only thing that we can become virtuots.
We'll be a very good at the world, we will do as the best of the world.
And so, what we're seeing is a whole generation of young who are virtuos in the games.
So, the big question is, "Where are gamers then so well?"
Because if we can get a virtual unprecedently unpredicted to human potential.
This is the number of people who are playing in the world at least one hours a day online.
These are our virtuoses.
500 million people who are extraordinary in something.
And in the next decade decades, we will have a billion gamers that are extraordinary in something that are extraordinary in something that are extraordinarily that are extraordinary.
If you don't know it.
The gaming-industry is consoles of developing that requires needed and with wireless networks rather than band instead band the gamers of the world, especially in India, China and Brazil, China and Brazil.
They're expecting a billion gamers over the next decades.
That brings us to 1.5 billion gamers.
So I asked me wonder where we are being supposed to be such virtuos.
I found four business, the first is burning optimism.
Okay. This can you can see this as extreme self-motivation.
Brendering optimism is the wants to act, to packaged to packah, combined with the belief that we have a reasonable chance on success.
Gamers always believe that a "epic win" is possible, and that it's always worth worth to try and try to try and try to try and try to try and try to try and try to try and try and try to try and try to try and try and try and try to try and try and try and try and try to try and try to try and try and try to try and try to try and try and try to try and try and try and try to try and try and try and try to try and try and try to be it.
Gamers don't don't have any gamers don't.
Gamers are virtuos' virtuos in the road social steof.
There is a lot of interesting research that we play that we play a game with them.
And the reason is that you need trusted to play a game with somebody a game --
We're confidence that they're going to play with their time, that they will play the same rules, that they're going to play the same purpose that they go to the same.
So a game play with someone forces the underling band, the confidence and the collaboration.
And as a result, we actually build more stronger social relationships.
Last productivity.
You know, there's a reason that the average World of World of Warcraft, 22 hours a week, almost like a half-time famous.
And that's because we know that when we play a game we are actually happy to work hard than if we are trying to work or something.
We know that we made as humans to be hard, useful.
And gamers are always willing to work, if they get the right work.
And eventually, epic meaning.
And Gamers would like to be built on the planetary scale.
So a small rotiny to make that clear.
You all know Wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the biggest wiki.
The second biggest wiki in the world, with almost 80,000 articles is the World Warcraft.
Five million people use it every month.
They have more info about World or Warcrafts together on the Internet than any other subject than any other subject are treated by another way.
They build an epic story.
They build an epic source of knowledge about Warcraft.
Okay, so that are four super-forces that are combined to one thing.
Gamers are super-formance, hopeful individuals.
These are people who believe that they're able to change the world.
And the only problem is they believe that they're able to change virtual worlds and not the real world.
That's the problem I'm trying to solve.
There is an economist, Edward Castronova.
His work is brilliant. He seek the reason that people spend so many time and energy spend to online worlds.
And he says, "We've taken from nothing less than a real mass to exoy to virtual worlds and online gamegles."
And he's an economist, he's an economist,
And he say, "Not like me, I'm a game designer; I'm a game designer; I'm excited.
But he says that this is logic, because gamers can be more reaches in a world than in real life.
They can have stronger social relationships in games than in real life.
They're getting better feedback and feel more reward in games than in real.
So he says that it is perfect logical that gamers are spending more time in virtual worlds than in the real world.
Now, I'm also going to agree that that is rational is right now.
But it's not a optimal situation.
We have to do the real world on a game more like that.
So I take my inspiration of something 2,500 years ago.
These are ancient death dobbles, OK?
Before we had cool controlers, we had sheet cops.
And this suggests the first piece of tools to play and play by people.
And if you know the old Greek historician Herodotus Herodotus Herodotus --
the inventors of the first game and why they invented it.
Herodotus says that game that game with dobbles, particularly invented in the kingduring Lydia.
And apparently the hungry was so that the king of Lydia decent to do something.
People suffering. People are feet.
It was an extreme situation. They had to find an extreme solution.
So, Herodottus, they found the dobig, they found a state policy.
One day, the one day, eat everyone.
The next day, everyone plays everyone play measures.
And they would be so catched in their play in their play because play so much, and stupid us underneath that they had no food productivity, that they had no food.
And the next day, they play games.
The day after it.
And then Herodotus they had this 18 years.
They survived a hungered by one day and eating the next day, and they play the next day.
Now, I think this is exactly how we use games today.
We're using games to be able to deal with the real world.
We're using them to understand them from the real world, in the real world, everything that is not enjoy to the real life, and we get what we need from games.
But there is not to end.
This is very exciting.
After 18 years. Herodotus the hungry didn't get better.
So the king that she would play that she would play.
They shared the entire kingdom.
They played one dobble, and the winner of that game was an epic adventure.
They'd leave Lydia, and looking for a new living place.
And not enough people kept over to survive of the life of life that were still there and hopefully they could let the civilization somewhere else.
Now, this sound sounds -- right?
But recently showed DNA evidence evidence to the Etruse, which would lead to the Rome, as the old DNA as the old Lydian.
And so, scientists have suggested that Herodotus" is a story.
And geologists evidence of a climate change that almost 20 years.
So this guy could be true.
And it could be that they save their culture through games by play by playing game by play for 18 years and then so many times and so much knew and so much knew and so much of the game.
All right, we can do it.
We're playing Warcraft since 1994.
It was the first time strategy game of the World of Warcraft of the World of Warcraft.
They play with death dober for 18 years, we playing Warcrafts over 16 years.
I say that we are ready for our own epic game.
Now, they had the population of the population for a new world.
So that's where I gamember, my 21 billion hours a week.
We're going to solve the hours of a day to go to an hours a day, until we solve problems in the real world.
Now, I know what you do, "How will we solve the problems of the problems by gament?" Well, that's what I have to solve the last couple of years, to the Institute For the Institute For the Tucome.
We have a banner in our building in Palo Alto, and it pressed our standpoint of how to deal with the future.
We don't want to predict him.
We want to form.
We want to imagine the best possible.
And then we want to give people the force to make that outcome.
We want to imagine, "epic wins" and then people give the resources to catch their "epic story.
And I'll just show you a little three games that I made a point that I made an attempt to give people the resources to create their own epic stors."
Okay, this is World Without Oil.
We did this game in 2007.
This is an online game where you try to survive a teshort to survive.
And the short is fictional, but we don't know enough online content to make you believe that it's really -- and to show you real life as though life as if we don't have any oil. And so if we don't have the game you tell the game tell. And so you tell you where you live.
And then we give your real-time pictures and the fact that you can actually show what the exact price of oil, which is not available, how the food supply is influence, how transportation is influence, the transportation of the schools.
And you have to figure out how to do your real life, and you have to be true, and then we ask you about it, and then we ask videos and pictures and pictures and pictures.
We're starting this game with 1,700 players in 2007.
And we followed them for the three years.
And I can tell you that this is a transformative experience.
No one wants to be lived only because it's good for the world or because it is good for the world or because we would have to do.
But if you summers in an epic adventure, and she says, "We don't have an oil."
This is a great story and adventure to go.
Do yourself to see how you would survive.
Most players held their lions that they recommend in this game.
So, for the next world-saving game, we decided to rescue higher problems, bigger problems than an oil.
We made a game called Superstruct struck to the Institute For the Toe.
The plot was that a supercomputer had calculated that people had only 23 years.
This supercomputer had the name Global Extinction Awareness Syvoice.
We asked people to get online, almost as a Jerry Bruckheimerry film.
You know, Jerry Bruckheimerry Bruckhes a dream.
You've got the astronaut, the scientists, and they should save the world.
But in our play, we have five people on the threw team, everybody's team -- and it's your job to find the future of energy, and the future of food and the future of food and the future of food and the future of health and the future.
We had 8,000 people playing the game for eight weeks.
They're consider creative solutions that you can see if you can see if you look like Google "Superstruct."
And then finally, the final game, we bring him on three maps. This game is made in collaboration with the World Bank Institute.
If you play the game you'll be certified by the World Bank Institute Institute, as a Social Institution, class of 2010.
And recognized with universities around Swart Africa, and we reach them to learn social innovation skills.
We have a comic story. We have a system with a system with the skills like local, knowledge, sustainability, knowledge, sustainability.
I would like to share all of you to share this play to share with young young -- all over the world, especially in development, that could be able to save their own social entrepreneurations to save the world.
So I'm going to walk right now.
I want to ask a question.
What do you think is going to happen now?
We have all these amazing gamers, we have these games that are ideas of what we could do, but no one of them has been saved the real world.
Well, I hope you'll be an agree with me, that gamers are a human aid source, that we can use to help the real world, that games are a powerful platform for change.
We have all this incredible super-forces, the possibility of productivity, the possibility to away, the possibility to away, and the desire, this sense of brane and the desire to an epic meaning.
And I really hope that we can come together to play games to play games that make a difference on this planet.
And my hope is that you go with me, in making and play games and play games like this.
If I take forward to the next decade I know two things like that, I know two things that we can imagine the future that we can be able to play that we can play that we can play that we want.
So, I'm saying, let the world-changing playing games.
Thank you.
Since one time I've been interested in the placebo effect.
And that can seem strange for a magician, unless you admit to the same meaning of this as me, that's something that is takingdy-believed believed that it is really getting in certain particular studies have a measurable effect in certain particular studies: the place: the place: the place: the place-effect.
Just because the person in issue thinks that what is is a crazy powerful tools or something.
For example, for example, for example, somewhere in below, it gets a measuable, it gets a measurable effect.
Something that is not, because of a person is neat, because of a perception of it.
To make sure that we understand each other, I want to start with you a very simple basistrator.
And I'm going to show you how it works. This trick is certain since the 'five in every magic book for children.
I learned himself as little boy in the seventions in the seventially year.
I'm going to do the trick I read him.
And then I explain why I explain why I explained him.
This is what happens.
The whether you can see, my hand, that you can see.
And I'm going to do it in this way in my dirtly.
I'm going to flow my minds.
And certainly certainly that there is nothing in my whether of my wrist.
You can see that there is no movement.
And so long here, I can't get anything, there can't be anything in and come out of my mind.
The goal is very simple.
I'm going to open my hand, and hopefully, if it's good -- my magnetism is going to keep the couple of my high netism,
And it becomes so four, that I can shake that I can shake it and that it wasn't on the ground.
Nothing is in my mind, no cheat. And you can be able to observe everything else.
Ta-day!
I learned this trick I learned to young kids that are interested in the good, because you can teach a lot of learning about crimp by study.
Even the trick of the trick is very simple simple.
Probably many of you have this trick.
This is what happens.
I love it in my hand.
I say that I say that I think I think I don't have anything, to make sure that there's nothing in and comes out of my mind.
That's money.
And the reason I saw my pols is because there is the secret of the illusion.
At the moment my hands of your view away from your view of my wisdom of his original place to one in a sense of his original place, in fact,
"Mooi trick." Someone who had no youth of youth in the room is in the room.
This is going to be like this.
And if I turned around my finger.
And we can talk about why this is misleading is, why you don't you notice that there are only three fingers.
And that's because the brain information in a way that it doesn't match a way that it doesn't matter two, three counts, but growing, it's growing.
But that's not really going to be about, right?
Of course, the sustaines are not magnetism, but by cheating, by the presence of my wisdom.
And if I close my hand, the same.
And if I turned back again.
And I'm going to go away. You reach it out.
A beautiful trick that you can do for friends and family. Thank you.
Now, what does this have to do with the placebo effect?
About a year ago, I read a research that my eyes me opened the eyes.
I'm not a scientist, so for me, so I was this amazing.
It turns out that if you allow a placebo in the shape of a white rounds that seems on an aspire that looks like an effect.
And often as the shape of the placebo changes, for example by making a smaller pill, that you have color, and then you have a letter on the case is measurable effective.
And despite that not both adaptments medical meaning -- it's sugar pills.
But a white pill is not as well as a blue.
What? And I got really of the support up.
But it turns out, it can do that.
It turns out that capsules are more effective than whatever kind of tably.
A colored capsule, at one and the other side, one and the other side, is better than a white one.
Doserving a roll.
A pill twice daily is not as well as three pillengineering -- I can't remember the statistics -- sorry.
But the point is ...
As a roll.
And the shape a rol.
And for the ultimate placebo effect, we need to go to the needle.
Yes, right? A injection with what inert, a couple of centiliter of a kind of insupposed in a patient,
This is a huge powerful image in his mind.
It's many times stronger than the white pil.
We're going to see a graph graph, when we can see dias.
The point is, the white pill is not as good as the blue is not as good as the capsule, is not as good as the capsule, is not as good as the neighborhood.
And no one of all has a real medicinal propert.
Just you believe it in your body, and creates a stronger effect.
I wanted to see if I wanted to look at that idea in a trick.
I wanted to take something that is clearly a trick and really like that.
We know from that research that when you want to grab the needle.
This is a needle of nearly 18 inches.
I'm going to be a little bit of starise here.
This is really my meat. This is not a particular meat.
This is my skin. This is not Hollyword special effect.
I'm going to spend my skin, and this needle through my arm arm, until I go through them, until I put it on it.
And if you're flawings -- or if you are easily flaws -- I did this trick trick for a few friends and also some people I don't know know.
A woman was almost of her sticky.
So I imagine that if you are sure that if you are over-the next 30. You know what, I do the first heavy part of it.
You can see, but you can look as if you want.
This is what happens.
I make a little poor, I make a small globe.
Sorry, man. Find you this abrid?
Then a piece of a piece and then a piece and then the other side outside.
Now, in essentially we are in the same situation as the same situation as with the measure.
A kind of thing.
But you can count my fingers, right?
I showed them here is two, three, four, five.
Yes,
I know people think that if they see this.
They think, "He's certainly enough to spend themselves for a few minutes for a few minutes of entertainment of his audience."
How does that look like this? Do good.
Yeah, I know it. The people back in the room, "Okay, I don't saw that saw don't see, you know, I think it's going to be right now closer to the screen.
So let me show you this from close to you.
And that's really my skin. That's not Hollywood special effect.
That's my meat. I can go and turn that pain a little bit.
Sorry. When it gets too much, don't look at that thing.
People in the room or people later in the room of the images of images will say, "That looks like a beautiful special effect, but if it was really -- there was a hole and there, he would be blood." Let me just to be blood." Let me just a little block for you.
Yes, there's it.
Normally, I would speak the needle of removed.
I would behave my arm, and I would show you that there were no cover.
But in this context and with the idea of something that is takes and really make the needle and I just sit down, and I walk down the stage.
And the next days I'm going to see you more multiple again.
Hopefully you look at that. Thank you very much.
I know a lot of fishing in my life.
I love only two two of them.
The first thing that looked more like a passionate affaire.
And it was a beautiful fish, good structure, good structure, a exist-seller on the menu.
What a fish.
Beter now, it was moved fish to the highest standards of sustainability.
So you feel good at the sell.
I had a relationship with this beauty for a few months.
On a day, the head of the company and asked me or I wanted to speak on an eventual about the sustainability of the shore.
"Absolut," I said, I said, "Absolutely saying.
Here was a company that was tried to solve that this incredible problem.
How do we love on our people?
In the last 50 years, we have the seas fishing the seas we have the forests.
It's hard to surprise the destruction of destroy
90 percent of the big fish, which we love the tunes, the sacks, the sacks, the sacks, the sacks, they are instone.
There is almost nothing about it.
So, as well or whatever it goes, aquaculture, fissue, fish, fish, is part of our future.
Although there are a lot of arguments.
Fiscuits and pollutants, most of them althans, they're inefficient, they are inefficient.
A big minds.
It has a food conversion of 15 to 15 against 15 against 1.
And that means that there was five-pound fish to get a pound.
Not very sustainable.
And it's not very well.
So here was finally a company that it tried to do.
I wanted to support.
The day for the event, I was the head PR of the company.
Let's call him Don it.
"Don," I said, "to get the facts, I said, "to get the facts that you don't know because of it so far in the sea, that you don't deal -- that you don't refront."
"That's right," he said, "We're so far out of the cost, that the waste of our fishing and not concentrated, and not concentrated.
And he added "We are in fact, we are a global on itself.
And that food conversiero? 2.5 against 1," he said, "Bost in the business."
2.5 against 1, great.
"2.5 against one what?
"Duuring protein," he said he said, he said he say.
"Great," I said, I saw down. And the phone.
And that night, I was layer and thought, what is in godnment in godnment,
So the next day, I believe for the event, I called Don.
And I said, "Don, what are examples of sustainable proteines?"
And he said that he wouldn't get it.
So I've been on the line with a number of people in the company.
No one could give me a clear answer.
And until I finally got the main biologist.
Let's call him Don it.
"Don," I said, "What are a couple of sustainable protein indeed,
Good, he called a single algae and some fishing meal meals and then he said chicken balls.
I said, "Kipballs?"
And he said, "Yeah, shopping soil, shissue, shissue and caused to be drough."
I said, "Which percentage of your food?"
Of course, two percent.
"Well, that's about 30 percent," he said he say.
And I said, "Don, what's sustainable to chicken on chicken on chickens?"
And there was a long pause, there was a long pause, and he said, "There is just too much chicken in the world."
My love for this fish.
No, not because I mean, not because I determine a contractly.
I love that.
No, I love my love for this fish for this fish for this fish.
This second fish, that's a very different love story.
It's the romantic species, the kind of which is the kind of which is that you have more of your fish, you love more of the fish.
I was at the first time in a restaurant in a restaurant in southern Spain.
A friting journalist spoke for a long time about this fish.
She has us whether us or more engineer.
And he came up with a table, almost glorion, white town.
And the cok had him too cooks.
Almost two times.
It's amazingly, he was covered it.
Who can a fish so well.
And I don't don't do this guy.
Let's call him Migual.
Actually, his name is also Migual.
And no, he's not cooked and he's not cooking and he's not cooking.
Don't least the way that you and I don't understand it.
He's a biologist in Veta La Palma.
That's a fish, that's a fishing in the souther,
At the point of the Gaudalquivian river.
Until the '80s, the sharing of Argentinians.
They're photographs on some behavior.
They were doing the country that through the country.
They built a complex channels and they pushed the water of the country,
It wasn't couple of them, not economical.
And ecologically, it was a disaster.
90 percent of the birds was death.
what, for these place, lots of birds are lots of birds.
And so in 1982, a Spanish environmental conscious company the country.
What did they they do?
They turned the waterflow the water flow.
They literally put the button the button.
Instead of pushing water out and pushed the channels to late.
They put the channels under water.
They created a 1,100 hectare great fishing -- and harder, shrimps -- and the same time -- and at the same time, Miguel and his company the ecological destruction of the ecological destation of the ecological destation of completely.
And the game is great.
I mean, you've never seen something like this.
You look at the horizon who is infinitely far away and everywhere, you can see over, and this thicky moeras.
Not so long ago, I was there with Migule.
He's an amazing ventor Charles Darwin and one quarter Crocodi.
Okay? There we are plumbering through the behavior, and model, moduntil my knee, and Migually gives a biologiles.
Here he points to a rare Schouder.
And now he points to the mineral needs of the phytoplankton.
And here, here he looks like a group spatracy that is thinking about the Tanzanian giraft.
And it turns out that Migual of his career in the Mikumi National Park in the Mikumi National Park in Africa.
I asked him how he has become an expert.
He said, "Vis? I don't know anything of fish.
I'm a relationships."
And then he talked so further about rare birds of birds and weird water plants.
Don't wrong, it was really fascinating, a kind of biological community.
It was great, but I was loved.
And my head silled with the cooked piece of the cooked pieces that I had the night.
So I said, "Migual him. I said, "Migual, how does it make your fish so well?"
He read to the algae.
"I know it, the guy, the algain, the phytoplankton, the relationships, it's great.
But what are the fish?
What is the food conversiero?"
And then he goes through me to tell you that it is such a rich system that the fish.
The plant biomassa, the phytoplankton, the animal plankton, which is the fish.
The system is so healthy, it's completely self.
There is no feer.
As a farmer who don't feed her animals.
Later that day, I reach this terrain with Miguel and asked him, I said, "For a place that I said, "For a place so natural that I ever know to be, "how do you measure, "how do you measure.
At that moment, it was a movie record a setwo.
And we went to the corner and saw the most amazing, thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of carpet to look at it.
"That's success," he said, he said he saying.
"Look at their bugs, croze.
They're at the part."
Fest? I was totally confusion.
And I said, "Migual, are not at the fish?"
"Yeah!
"We're talking about 20 percent of our fish and fish.
Last last year, this area had 600,000 birds over 250 different species.
It's now the biggest and one of the most important private birds of birds in Europe."
I said, "Migual, is a bird population that it does not be the last thing you want to do about a fish?"
He shake his head no.
He said, "We're extensive, not intensive, not intensive.
This is an ecological network.
The flamingos eat the shrimps.
The shrimp of eating the phytoplankton.
So the rozero, the behind the system."
Okay, let's just go.
An animals that are not worth animals, and a currently that his success measures of his hunters.
A fish, but also a bird of fish.
Oh, marries: that flamingos, who couldn't be here at all.
They're in a village 250 kilometers, where the flodemconditions are better to build net.
Every morning they fly flying 250 kilometers to the front of soil.
And every night, they fly 250 kilometers.
They're doing that because they can be able to follow the highway from the faster A92.
No joke.
I was a penguinmars, so I looked at Migual --
And I said, "Migule, they fly 250 kilometers and then the evening 250 kilometer?
Do they do it?"
He looked like I just looked like I just a Whitney Houstony Houstone.
He said, "No. They're doing that to be better."
I don't like the skin of my loving fishing fish. And I don't like fish. And I don't love fish.
I don't love it. I love it. I love it up.
It's that wrange, teachers, teachers.
I do rare.
But when I provide him in that restaurant in southern Spain that restaurant.
And he taken like you took a hap of the ocean out of the ocean.
I said that to Miguel and he kned.
He said, "The skin works like a spus.
It's the final defense before something the body.
He's evolved to southern away."
And then he added "But our water has no water has no water has no souther."
Okay, OK. A fish.
And a front of the success of his predators.
And then I realized that when he said, a currendering that no dismiss -- he makes a big understatement, because it makes a big understatement because the water that comes out of the Guadalquier.
That's a river, that is a river that rivers reverse that rivers are tending to take the day, chemical definitions, pesticide rests.
And as it takes his way through the system and away.
The system is so healthy that it is salth.
So not just a single that are not only a single that are not just a currently that his success measured to the health of his predator, but a killer that literally is a water iversince stallation.
And not just for those fish, but also for you and me.
Because if the water away the water away.
A drugs in the ocean, I know it, but I take it, and I supposed to do, because this love, although romantic, although romantic, although romantic, is also teacher.
You can say that it's a recipe for the future of good food, whether we talk about birds or runders.
What we needed is a radial new agricultural concept, one where the food is actually good takes.
But for a lot of people is that a bit too radical.
We're not a realists, we are fine fine propers.
We are love.
We love farmers' markets.
We love little family companies.
We talk about local food.
We eat organic.
And if you suggests that these things are the things that the future of food that the future of food is always someone on and says, "Hell I love the world?
How do you get the world?"
Can I think it's hone?
I love that question.
No, not because we are producing more than enough calories to add the world.
One billion people get hungry.
One billion -- that is more than ever -- because of the great inequality in distribution, not the amount of distribution, not the amount.
I love this question because it's determined by the logics of our food system of the last 50 years.
And from the ground, pestics of refor, pesticides and chemicals, chemicals to fish, and the entire agribusiness, and the entire agribusiness has asked, "If we feel more more people chemicals -- "If we feel more people chemicals.
That's the motivation.
It's the justice, it's the justice.
It's the entrepreneur. It's the entrepreneur.
We ought to call it what it is, a entrepreneur, a entrepreneuration that quickly.
That's not an entrepreneur and it's not an agriculture.
Our daily bread now is threatened not by the device, but by the entertainment sources, not by the last combine and tractor and tractorinvention, but by pumps, not by pump, but by cleaning water, but by clean up by pumps, but by fishing through fishers, but by fishing the sea.
Do you feed the world?
Let's start with the question: How do we feed to do ourselves?
Or better, how can we create conditions that every community can we feel conditions of itself?
To do that, don't look at the agribusiness model for the future.
It's old and it's old and it is astone.
And it was a strong of money, chemicals and machines, and machines, and it never really good to eat.
Let's look at the ecological model.
That's the model that confidence on two billion years.
Look at Migule, scenes like Migual, sweaters that are not own world, freads that restoring instead of exhausting instead of instead of just instead of just instead of just instead of just intensity that are not just percents, but in relations, because they are the experts in relationships.
And I'm very fairly very honest, they are a better block than I'm going to be.
You know, I think the primary, because if that the future of food is good food, then it becomes the couple of food.
Thank you.
I grew up, on a constant diet.
During the front of education, I went to school with the bus to school, a hour and back to school, every day.
And I was always absorbed by a book, a science fiction book, a science fiction book, that in minds me to other worlds, and that, in stories sense, my inevable curious curiodable curiosity.
And, you know, that curiosity is also ways in the fact that I was alwasting when I was not in the forest, when I was not in the forest and "monsters' collected, cts and snaks, and snaks, and they looked up with the microscope.
You know, I was a real science.
But it all went to understand the world, the boundaries of the possible.
And my my love for science fiction, seemed to be mirirror in the world to be him, because what happened, this was the end of the sea year, we went to the moon, we were the deep ocean -- we were the deep oceans, Jacques Cousteau Cousteau Cousteau that we had no fantastic specials, that we had never showed us, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world.
This seemed to resonate with the whole science fiction of it.
And I was an artist.
I could draw. I could draw. I could draw.
And because there were no video games, and this shell of CG films and all these images in the media landscape, I had to create these pictures in my head.
You know, that we had to do all that as a book and as a book and the basis of the description of the author something.
And my response, my responses, drawing aliens alien creatures, alien world, already creatures, already all that kind of things.
I was constantly constantly during mathematics behind my textbook.
That was the creativity that was the creativity that had to find an extraordinary.
And there was something interesting happened to the Jacques Cousteau programs, was very excited about the fact that there was an extraordinary world, just here on Earth.
And I wouldn't really go to a extraordinary world in a room in a spaceship.
And that seemed pretty unlikely.
But that was a world that I could actually go to the world, which was so rich and exotic as rich and exotic if everything I had imagined by the reading of that books.
So I decided to be done at 15 years.
And the only problem that I was lived in a little village in Canada -- 600 miles of the nearest ocean.
But I'm not showed me through that.
And I put my father until my father until at Buffalo, New York, just about the ground.
And I got my certified in a swimmble of a YMCA, in the middle of the winter, in Buffalo, New York.
And I saw the ocean, a real ocean, not to just two years later, when we moved to California.
Since then, in the forces 40 years, I have about 3,000 hours under water under water, and 500 hours under the water.
And I have learned that deep sea deep sea, and even the undeep oceans, so wealthy are so wealthy life that it really our imagination.
The imaginative force of nature is so front of our constrainy and human imaginations.
And until on this day, I have big excited for what I'm seeing these dives.
And my pass for the ocean for the ocean is just as strong if she ever was ever as strong.
But when I was a career a career was this filmmaker.
And that seemed the best way to do the neath that I had to have stories, to combine stories, to combine with my neat.
And as a child I was always working with the drawings of comic books, etc.
Films are making the way of images and stories. And that seemed together.
And of course, the stories that I choose bucking, science fiction: "Terminator," "Terminator," "Aliens," and "The Abyss."
And with "The Abyss," I brought my love for underwater and dive for underwater and making films.
Say, the two passions combine combining.
Something interesting was from "The Abyss," which is that to resolve a specific story-engineering problem in that film, creating a kind of fluence in that film, creating a kind of fluence, that we generated computer generated animation, CG, enomerated that we generated animation --
And this resulted in the first soft surface" character, CG animation, that had ever put in a film.
And even despite that the movie never got money, it was nearly break break-ak break-aways, I was an extraordinary of something extraordinary, that was the public, the global magic.
You know, it's Arthur Clarke: Arthur Clarks, that any enough advanced technology not too distinguish.
They saw a magical.
And I was very excited about that.
And I thought, "Wow, this is something that needs to be surrounded in the filmber."
So, with "terminator 2," which was my second film, which was my second film, we went to here much further.
World with ILM, we created the liquid metal metal metals to that film. The success is whether that was going to work.
And that did it. And we created again.
And we had the same result with the audience.
And all we deserve a little bit more money on that film.
So, to pull a line between those two points of experience, this is a whole new world, a whole new world, a whole new world of creativity for philenomenon.
So I started a company with Stan Winston, my good friend Stan Winston, who was the make-up make-up, and create designer in that time and it was called Domain.
And the concept of the company was that we would make a jump, precisely the analog processes of optical printers and we would have directly directly.
And we did that we actually didness and gave us a competition.
But we found ourselves behind us behind the middle years in the creature, and character design, which we had the company we originated the company that we were originated the company.
So I wrote this piece called "Avatar," "Avatar," which was absolutely to explain absolutely the front of visual effects, of CG, with realistic human emotional characters would all in CG and the head characters would all in CEEG. And the world in CG, and the world would all in CG, and the borders.
And I was told by the people in my business that we wouldn't be able to do this.
So I put it into the refrigerate, and I made that other film about a big scree of a big ship that sentence.
I sold it to the studio as "Romeo and Juliet" and Juliet" on a ship."
It's an epic romantic film.
What I wanted to do, I wanted to do was, I wanted to reach to the "Titanic."
And that's why I made the movie.
And that's the truth.
But I convinced them, I said, "We're going to take it to cover it.
We will use it in the opening of the film.
It will be very important. It's going to be a great marketing up.
A I convinced them an expedition.
And it sounds the theme of your imaginative imagination that creates a reality.
Because we actually created a reality that I found a reality where I found six months later in a Russian undersea -- two and a half deep, two and a half deep, in the northern Atlantic ocean, looked at the real Tanlantic by a patter, not a pattern, not a film, not a film, not not a film, not a film, but really, not a film,
And that's what I had been response.
And the regular a lot of prepartment, we had to develop cameras, and all kinds of things.
But it took me to how many these dive divine dive dive divids.
You know, there was very technical and it was very technical plannic,
You get in this dark in this dark of this dark environment where there is no hope to save that if you can't get back.
And I thought, "Wow, it seems if I live in a science fiction film.
This is very cool.
And so, I had the taken of exploring the deep ocean.
Of course, the curiosity, the science component of it.
And it was everything. It was a night, it was curiosity. It was imagination, it was imagination, and it was an experience that Hollywood me.
Because, you know, I could imagine, and I could imagine, and we could be able to create a visual effect." But I couldn't imagined what I saw out of that window.
And we did some of our next expeditions I saw some of our next expeditions that I had never seen before, sometimes things that I had never seen before, sometimes sometimes things that nobody had ever seen before, who were really not described by the science of science at the moment that we saw and they described them and they did.
And so I had to come up with this.
And so I made a weird decision.
After the success of "Titanic," I said, "OK, I said, "OK, I'm paying my job as Hollywood filmmaker, and I'm going to be a while,
And so we started planning these expeditions.
And we went to the Bismarket, and explored the robotic vehicles.
We went back to the walk of the Titanic.
And we took little "collision, that we had created with that glassell.
And the idea was to go to inside and an interior -- research of that ship, which never done before.
No one had ever looked in the wood, they didn't have the resources to do it, so we developed technology to do it.
So, here I am at the Titanic, at the Titanic, in a submarine and look at the bottom that seems so much like this, which seems so much like this: I knew that was played the band
And I serve a little robotic vehicle by the way,
And when I say that I consciousness, but my consciousness is in the vehicle I felt physically awk of the Titanic.
And it was the most surreal kind of dejavu-experience that I ever had, because I had ever -- because I had to have already what would be there for the vehicles of the vehicle of the vehicle long showed the movie.
And the set was an exactly replica on the blueprints of the ship.
So the absolutely markable experience.
And it did me realize that the telepresence that the telepresence that you can actually have this kind of robotic avatars in the vehicle of robotic avatars in the vehicles of existence.
It was really pretty close to deep.
And probably a little bit of a look at what could happen, what decauses decade as cyborgood to be available for exploration or another, in many species of post-human future, which I can imagine imagine, which I can imagine as a science.
So, these expeditions and really beginning and really starting to apply what was there, such as the deep ocean resources where we had this wonderful amazing amazing animals.
They're practical extraordinary creatures on Earth.
They live in a environmental of chemosynthesese.
They don't live in a sunlight based system like we do that.
And so you see animals that lives next 500 degrees Celcius heat plumes.
You could think that they can be able to exist.
And at the same time, I was also again a very interested in space science, again space science, again, the science, again science, again, the science fiction influence as a child.
And I got involved in the space community, very involved in NASA, participants to the NASA, participants at the NASA advice, and I went to Russia, I went to Russia, and I went to Russia biomedic protocols and all that kind of things, to actually work with our 3D systems.
And this was fascinating.
But what the eventual result that I was space scientists with our meenam to the depth.
And they take access so that they had access to astrobiologists, planetetary scientists, people who were interested in that extreme environmend to the sources and take them to the sources and take them and samples and so forth.
So, here we were documentary films to do but actually make it science to documentary films -- and actually actually actually space science to do.
I had made the circle around from the science fiction fan, you know, as a child, you know, as a child and all do this.
And you know, during this journey, I learned a lot of it.
I learned a lot about science. But I also learned a lot about leadership.
Now you think that a record to be a leader of a leader, leader of the ship and that kind of things.
I didn't really learn about leadership until I did expeditions.
Because I had to say at a certain time, "What do I do this?
Why do I do this? What do I win it?"
We deserve no money with these disappear.
They're hardly break-one. There is no fame with it.
People think I'm going to be away between "Titanic" and "Avatar" and "Avatar" and I turned out to the beach.
I made all these films, all these films, all these documentary for a very restrict.
No far, no glory, no money. Where are you mean?
You do it for the work itself, for the challenge, and the ocean is the most challenging environment that is there is a little group of discovery, and for that strange of people a small group of people a small group of people.
Because we did all these things with 10-10-12 people working for year.
Sometimes. Sometimes for 2-3 months.
And by that band, you realize that the most important thing is the respect is that you have a task for them and that said for you, that you can't explain someone else, that you can't explain someone else.
When you get back to your back, and you say, "We had to do this and the fiber optic and the demp, and the demp, and the demp, all the technology and the hardness, the human performancement of working on sea, you can't explain people. And it's that thing that thing is that thing that is probability to people.
It creates a band, creates a band creates a respect.
So when I came back to make my next film, which "Avatar," I was trying to do that same principle of leadership, which is that your team respect and you make your team respect and you make it respect.
And that changed the dynamic.
So, I was against a little team, in a team, in the map, "Avatar, "Avatar," and new technology that wasn't existed before.
Enorm exciting.
Enorm challenging challenged.
And we were a family, for a family of a four and a half years.
And it changed how I make films.
So, people gave comment on how you saying, the ocean organisms came back and put them on the planet and put them on the planet.
For me, it was a fundamental way of doing things, the process itself, the process itself, which changed.
So, what can we synthesization?
You know, what are the learned less?
Well, I think is a curiosity.
It's the powerful thing you do.
Imagination is a force that can manifest a reality.
And the respect of your team is more important than all the team in the world.
There are young filmmakers that come to me and say, "Give me some advice to do."
And I say, "Like you don't go on a constraints.
Other people are going to do that for yourself.
And you take risks."
NASA has said that they were like to say, "Mislucking is not an option."
But crize, a must be an option in arts and discovery, because it is a judge in the deep.
And not a single significant that innovation required without risk.
You've got to be willing to take those risks.
And that is the thought I would like to leave you, that in whatever you do, that in whatever you do, but fear. Thank you.
If I give you one of the idea of a big idea, it's that it is that it is very much of the data that we use is bigger than the sharing of the parts.
And instead of the information, I want to think about how we can use information to figure out how to use information and trends that would stay included.
This is a typical mortality of difficult decade to age.
The tool I use here is an experiment.
It's called Pivot. Pivot, I can filter filtering on one certain death, for example, for example.
I see an immediately another pattern.
And that's because here in the middle of people are the most active, and there's the vulners.
We can step outside, and we can step the data reorganized species.
We're seeing that heart diseases and cancer the usual forcements, but not for everyone.
And if we go and moves, for example, 40 years or young young -- we see that includes are the biggest cause of care.
If you dive in deeper there is that especially for males.
You can see what I mean: like this way to see information looks like swimming in a living infographic.
If we can do this with rude data, why, why, why, why, why,
And what we have here is the front page of every number of Sports Illustrated that ever has ever been made.
Everything is here. It's all on the now.
You can go to your room, and you can go and try and go after my talk.
With Pivot you can zoom in a decade.
You can zoom in a certain year.
You can go to a particular number of number.
I look at this thing. I see the athletes that are appear in this number, the sports.
I'm fan from Lance Armstrong, so forward, so forward, and that gives me all the numbers that Lance Armstrong in additions.
And if I just want to look at this, I think, "Why don't don't all the wheels,
I do a step back and go back and go into that.
Now I see Greg Lemond.
You can see that if you read through information and brother, smaller and well, you don't see, you don't see, then you don't look for it.
You do something that is a little different.
It's a sense, and we think that it changes how you can use information.
So I want to go through it a little bit.
Here we have been taken every page of Wikipedia and they constrained to a small together.
The collabor is a little synopsis and a little synopsis and a icon.
I just show only the top 500 popular Wikipedias.
But even in this limited disable, we can do.
We get an idea of the subject of the subjects that are the popular on Wikipedia.
I'm going to go beyond and government.
Now I have government, I see that the Wikipedia-categories that following up there, Time magazine magazine magazine magazine.
This is very important, because this insight in the apart Wikipedia-pages.
You can only get it through a step back and look at them all and look at them all too look at it.
If I look at one of these collabors I can deep deeper to the deeper Time magazine Person of the year.
A look at all these people teaches me that the majority of politics.
Some of the natural sciences.
A smaller number of the business world.
There is my base.
You get out of the music world,
What's interesting is that Bono also a TED Prize-wine.
So we can jump to all the TED Prize winners.
So we did for the first time by the web as though it is really a web, not from page page to page page at a higher abstractivity.
I want to show you one other thing that you might astone.
I'll show the website of the New York Times.
Pivot, this application -- I don't want to call it a browser, it's actually not browser, but you can see webpages -- and we bring this major technology to every webpage page.
I'm going to leave a step back and jump back in a specific section.
The reason that this is important, is that I can just look at webpage so I can look at my entire brow-se-history in the same way.
I can look at deeper in what I've done in certain perios.
Here's the status of the demo that I just have been given --
And I can play things that I'm looking at earlier today.
If I put a step back, and I can look at my historics maybe my historic.
Here I did some nepotistic research, I was looking for Bing, and here Labs Pivot.
From there, I can take deeper on the page of the page and re-launch,
It's one metaphor that phors over again, and every time it makes it very bigger than the parts of the data.
And today, in our world, we see data as a fluence.
We're talking about the liquid of information.
We're talking about.
And if we were able to put that on his heads, and the web on the web on the web on the next thing to the next one, we can go from one thing to go from many things to many things to go from many things to many things, and the patterns that would be hidden.
If we do that, we are not of, we can't be able to do that, we can really make information.
Instead of only with information, we can actually knowledge.
If we have knowledge, maybe even wisdom.
I thank you very much.
Everybody speaks today about happiness.
I have someone the number of books that the youngest five years with "happines" in the title and he has given it up after about 40, and there were a lot more.
There is a lot of importance for happiness, in researchers.
There is a lot of happiness.
Everybody wants to make people happier.
But despite that mass that mass there are different cognitive values that make it so what impossible to think about happiness.
And I'm going to have this today about that cognitive values.
This is true for ordinary people who think about their own happiness, and it researchers that thinking about happiness, because it turns out, it turns out that as all the others.
The first fall, the first fall.
It turns out that the word happiness is just not a useful word for too many things.
I think that there is one certain meaning that we might be able to consider it, but everything is considered to give up and we'll be able to give the more complicated vision of what's going on.
The second fall is the confusion between experience and memory and memory that is the difference between happy in your life and his happy in your life.
And that are two totally different things that are going to be thrown in the concept "happines."
And the third choil is the illusion of focus and the unhappy fact that we can't think about a conditions that impact on our well.
I mean, this is really a cognitive value.
There is no way to get this.
Now, I would like to start with an example of someone who was a question of someone who was a question and answers a story.
And this was the story.
He said he said that he had the symphony and it was absolutely fantastic music and it was absolutely fantastic music and at the end of the recordity of sound.
And then he said, really completely engineered that this was the whole experience.
But that's not right.
It had reminded the reminds.
He had the experience.
He had fantastic music music.
These were not worth because he was reminded with a remember, the remember, and the remember, and the remind was already what he had had to keep all.
And what this is that we could see is that we could see ourselves and others as two persons.
There is a experience, which lives in the hot and knows, which is able to be able to re-past past. But it has only been in order only the past has only been in order just it.
The doctor focused to our experience I -- you know, if the doctor, "Do it now pain if I asked you?"
And then there's the remember I remembering is the one that I think is that the state and the story of our lives and the story of our lives, and that is the person who the doctor, and that is the person to say, "How did you feel the last time.
or "How was you travel to Albania.
Those are two very different things, the experience I remembering and the confusion between both is part of the the mazing of the understanding of the understanding happiness.
I remember the storyteller.
And that is really starting with a fundamental reminds of our reminds -- it starts immediately starts -- it starts immediately starts with a fundamental reminds.
We're not just telling stories when we address stories.
Our memory tells us story, which is to say, what we can be able to say, what we can be able to say.
And let me beginning.
This is an old research.
These are real patients that a painful ingreet.
I spent you the details. This is not painful anymore, but it was painful when this research walked in the '90s.
They had to be reported every 60 seconds of their pain every 60 seconds
And these are two patients.
These are their review.
And there is "Who of them, "Who of them,
And that's a very easy question.
It's clearly that patient, B has had been talked more pain
His colonoscopy has longer longer, and for every minute pain that patient patient has patient, A patient, and more.
But here is another question: How many of these patients that they had these patients,
And what a surprising: The surprise is that patient, A much worse remind to the colonoscopy has patient.
The stories of the colonoscopies of the colonoscopies because a very important part of the stories -- and no one of these stories are very inspirings -- but one of these stories -- but one of them is certain worse than the other.
And the worse story is the story in which the pain the end.
That's a quality story.
How do we know that? Because we asked these people after their colonoscopy, and much later, well, "How was the whole state was the entire allowing?"
and it was much worse for B, in their remind.
Well, this is a justice conflict between the experience and remember the experience and remember.
From the point of view of the experience I got B clearly sworth of it,
Well, what you could do with patient A, and we actually have clinical trial clinical trials, and that's happened, and it was happening, and it was working on the colonoscopy of patient, and it was just to get too much.
And that causes the patient, but not much less than before.
And if you have that a few minutes you have it for the patient, I think of patient, and you remember, and you remember it for patient, and you remember patient's have a much better story about his experience.
What is a story?
And that is where for the stories that the memory, and it's also true for the stories that we are consisting the stories that we are included.
What a story is determines are changes, important moments and end.
Eindes are very, very important and in this case, the end was the end.
Well, the experience I live his life continuout.
It has moments of experience, one after the other.
And you say, what happens with this moments?
And the answer is really simple.
They're always lost. They're lost.
I mean, most of the time.
That means, you know, in a life you have about 600 million it.
In a month there are about 600,000.
Most of them don't leave it.
On the most of them are no attention to remind by remind by remind.
And yet you get the impressure that they should have the impressure that they should be from textile of this experience moments of this experience moments
It's the end solids that we use on Earth.
And how you use that seems to be relevant to be relevant to remind that it doesn't remember the story.
So we remembering and the experiencing I and that are really different.
The biggest difference between both is in the end.
From the point of view of the experience I have a vachance, and is the second week as the first week as the first one of two weeks, two weeks, two weeks as well as the vacation of one week.
It doesn't work for the remind.
For the remind is a vachance of two weeks, two weeks, there are better than the vacation of one week because there is no new reminds.
You don't have the story.
And in that way is actually the critical variable that a remembering I did.
Time has very few impact on this story.
It remember I do remembering and stories.
It's the person that decisions, if you have a patient, if you have a patient, you know, two colonoscopies have had a patient, two colonoscopies and have to decide which he will sell with the least remember, and that is the surgeon.
The experience I have no voice in this choice.
We don't choose between experiences.
We choose between remembers of experience." And even if we don't think about the future, we don't think of our future as we don't think about our future as experience.
We think about our future as a geanticipeated memories.
And you can actually look at this point, as a dictor of remember I remembering and you can remember it remember it as the one that experienced the experiencing I need it to remind the experiencing I need it to deal with the experiencing that if we have the sense that if we go to the service.
And that's pretty hard to responsibilities.
I mean, how often do we use our remember?
That's one of the explanations that are given for the dominance of the dominance of the remind.
And if I think about that, I think about a vachance that we had a few years ago in Antarctica few years ago in Antarctica few years ago, and I think it was very often in compartment.
And I probably have my remembers to that vacation of three weeks for about 25 minutes the last four years.
Now, if I had the map, I would have ever been on the 600 pictures in, then I would have an hour.
So these are three weeks, and that's almost other hour.
There seems to be a discrepance.
Now, maybe I am a little extreme -- you know, in the limited hunger that I have reminded to use remind rememberations, but even if you do that is hammaking so much to remind so much importance to the importance that we have to experience?
So I want you to think about a mind experiment.
Imaggine your next vacation is that at the end of the vacation of the photographs will be destroy and you get a pill, and you get a pile that you won't remind anymore.
Would you choose the same vachance? And if you choose a different vacation between your two job.
and you have to think about how to solve that conflict.
And that's not so obvious because if you think of time you get one particular a particular answer.
And if you think in terms of reminds of remind answer.
Why we choose the vacation we choose choose is a question that confront us with a choice.
Now, the two decades to two notions of happiness.
There are really two shapes of happiness that we can apply -- one per me.
So you can ask, how happy is the experience?
And then you would you say, "How happy are the moments in life of the experience?
And they're all happiness -- the happiness of moments is a rather complicated process.
What are the emotions that can be measure?
And by the way, we are today, we're able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the happiness of the happiness I got him.
If you ask to the happiness of remembering is that a totally different thing.
This is not about happy anybody lives happy anybody lies.
It's about how peace or following the person is like that thinking about her life.
Some different concept.
Everybody who's concepts to one hope a bunch of the study of the study of happiness, and I hear to a group of students that have made for a group of the study of the study of the study of happiness in this way.
And the distinction between the happiness and the enough I remember is reminded and the enough I'm recent to measure the two separate of measured the two definitely measured, the Gallup doing a global peile in which has been a global pile of their experiences.
And there are more inspent in that sense,
So the youngest years we begin to be happiness in the happiness.
And the main lesson that we have learned from each other.
You can know how much peace someone with his life is and that you really learn about how happy he lead his life and reversed up.
Just to give you an idea of the correlation, the correlation, the correlation is about 0.5.
That means that if you should meet someone, and you'd say that his father a meter tapous how much would you know about his length?
You would know something about his length, but there's a lot of uncertainty.
And so much uncertainty, you'd have if I tell you that somebody has been given to a scale of 10, you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they're about their experience.
So the correlation is weak.
We know something about what the peace of the experience.
We know that money is very important.
We know that happiness especially means that we are totally with people that we had to do with people that we had to do with people that we had to do with people that we had to be to.
There are other enough, but this weeks.
So if you want to make the happiness of the two crowds that you do very different things.
And the conclusion of what I've said here is that we wouldn't describe happiness as a substitute.
It's a completely different concept.
And then very quickly -- another reason we can't think of happiness about happiness is that we can't think of happiness on the same things if we think about life and if we think about life and if we think about life.
So if you ask the simple question of how happy people in California will not get the right answer.
If you ask that question, you think that people have to be happy in California as you live in California as you live in the California,
And what happens is if you think about life in California, you think about the contrast between California, and other places and other places and the contrast between California, and then for example in the climate.
It turns out that the climate is not so important for the experience I and even don't even think, I decided that decided how happy people are.
But because it thinks that I think it can return it out that you -- that some people to California -- that some people to California.
And it's really interesting to go and go and go to California to people who are moving to California, in the hope happier.
Well, their experience won't be happier.
That's what we know.
But one thing happens to be happier, they think they're happier, because if they think about it will be reminded how terrible it was reminded how terrible it was back in Ohio.
And they're going to think that they have the right decision.
It's very difficult to think about well, and I hope that I hope I hope that I've given a idea of how possible.
Thank you.
Chris Anderson: Thank you. I have a question for you.
Thank you very much.
When we told a couple of weeks ago, you told me that there was a very interesting invention from that Gallup-peiling.
Can you share this with our short a couple of minutes?
Daniel Kahneman: I think it's most interesting result of the Gallup-peile from the Gallup-peile is that we didn't expect absolutely --
It has to do with the happiness of the experience.
If we look at how feelings differences --
It turns out under the income from 60,000 dollars a year, for Americans, and then it goes across a whole big group of Americans, so what 600,000, a big representation, with an income under the 600,000 dollars a year.
CA: 60,000 DK: 60,000 dollars a year, then people are unhappy, and they become happiness, and they are become unhappier as they get armer.
And then we see a completely flake.
I mean, I mean, I've seen such such lines.
It's clearly, what happens is that money is that money not bringing happiness but that a lack of money, but that a lack of money and we can make that miserable to measure that telling with great, great precision.
For the other I remember the remind me, you can get a very different story.
The more money you deservices you know.
It doesn't believe for emotions.
CA: But Danny, the entire American freedom, and the pursuit of happiness.
If people who are taking results like the results of all this looks like the heading of what we believe about, you know, fiscal policy and so on.
Is there a chance that politicians, that the country in the general result in the general result would take severe and opened the policy?
DK: You know, I think that there's recognition of the role of happiness.
That recognition will slow out in the United States, that doesn't walk in the United States, but in the U.K.
People recognize that they should think about happiness if they think about public policy.
It will take a time and people are going to debatters on the question whether they want to study or the evaluation of life so we will have to study that debate.
And how we have increasing happiness is different dependent on how you think of how you think about the remember I whether you think about the experience.
This is going to affect policy in the next years, I think,
In the United States are being done to measure the experience happiness of the population.
And I think that will be in a year or 20, part of the national statistics.
CA: Well, it seems to me that this subject is the interesting policy to follow or should be the next few years.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Danny Kahneman.
I'm going to talk about energy and climate.
And that may seem a little surprisingly, because my full-time work in the foundation is about vaccines, the things that we need to invention and supply the poorest two billion people.
But energy and climate is extremely important for these people, in fact, more important than to this planet.
The climate climate so that their climates are not going to grow.
There will be too much rain fall, or too much raint.
Things are going to change so their vulnerable environment,
And that leads to hungry. It leads to uncertainty.
So the climate change.
The price of energy is extremely important for them.
In fact, if you could only take one thing to make cheap cheap to make the poverty.
The energy price is silence.
Really advanced civilization is based on the advances in energy.
The coal-carbon revolution, and the industrial revolution, and even in the 20th century, there was a very quickly, there was a very quick price to electricity, and so many axen, airconditional materials and so many things.
And we have a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world.
Now, we make the cheaper -- and let's make it two times so cheap -- then there is a new constraination, and that has to do with CO2.
CO2 leading the warms of the planet, and the equation of CO2 is actually a very simple thing.
And if you count: the CO2 that is being extincluding to a temperature, and that temperature, and that temperature, and the temperature.
The effects of the impacts of maybe the indirect effects, that the natural ecosystems can't adapted to these rapid changes, and so you get ecosystems that instories.
Now, the exact amount of how to do a particular increasingly increasingly from CO2 to which temperatures are going to go and copages where the positive back, which is only uncertainty, but not very much.
And there is certainly uncertainty about how much the consequences, but they will be very seriously.
I've been asked this often to top-scientists.
We have to really come up to zero?
Can we don't take half or a quarter of a quarter?
And the answer is that, until we get in the neighborhood, the temperature.
So that's a big challenge.
For example, for example, a four feet high-four bridge of 3.6 meters are trying to get under it.
This is something that to zero.
Now, we have a lot of CO2 years.
For every American is about 20 ton.
For people in poor countries it's less than one ton.
It's a average of about five tons for everyone on the planet.
And we needed to change that.
It's constantly constantly up.
One of the economic changes have a little bit of a rap, so we need to increase from a rapid of a pace of a pname, and a name at zero.
This equation has four factors.
A little multiply multiply.
So, you have something to the left side, CO2, that you want to bring to zero-based on the number of people, the average use of services per person, the average use of service, and the average to every services and the CO2 a energy-unity.
So, let's see this piece for piece and see how we can get this to zero.
Probably one of these values in the neighborhood.
That's a high school mathematics, but let's take a look.
First of all, we have the population.
Now, the world today, 6.8 billion people.
And that is the styes of about nine billion.
So, if we really do it with new vaccins, healthcare, healthcare, reproductive health care, then we could reduce that measures measures, 10 or 15 percent, but we see a stye of about 13.
The second factor is the services that we use.
This contains everything, the food that we eat all eating, tished.
These are very good things, and the away from poverty of these services of services to almost everyone on the planet.
So it's great as this number.
In the rich world, perhaps the top one billion, we can probably inflect and the consuming lessons, but year is going to take this number, and increased up the average, and so on.
Here we have a very simple service.
Have your bottom in your home to read your homework, fact that these kids don't go to outside and read their homework under the lunder the country,
So, efficiency, E, the energy for every service.
Finally, we have good news.
We don't have something that is not stying.
And Via diverse inventions and new ways of enlightenation, through other ways of building, by other ways of building.
There are lots of services where you need to reduce the energy that can be lots of the energy.
Some individual services, even with 90 percent.
There are other services, like how we are producing whether or how we do with airverage that space for improvement is much smaller.
And so, if we are optimistic, we can reduce a factor three to them, a factor, a factor.
But for these first factors we are 26 billion year, on his best, 13 billion -- 13 billion and that's just not enough.
So let's look at this fourth factor -- this will be a certain -- and that is the CO2 per energy.
So the question is, can you get that to zer?
If you get colleges, no.
And if you stook, no.
Frich, every way that we are producing the day, electricity, except the emerging sustainable energy and nuclear energy and nuclear energy, produces CO2.
And what we need to do in global scale, is creating a new system.
So we need energy amazing.
So, if I wonder in the term of the term I don't do anything that is impossible.
The microprocessor is an amazor is an ama.
The Internet and the services are a wonder.
So, the people here have contributed to create many wonders.
Normaliter we have no deadline, when you have to have it on a certain date.
Mestally, you know, you won't happen sometimes, sometimes.
And this is a lot that we have to actually pull speed on full speed and a wimming agenda.
Now I thought, how can I really really, do this.
Is there a kind of natural illustration, a demonstration, a demonstration that talks to people to the imagination.
I was thought back to a year ago, when I remember, and in some way that was a way that supposed that fun.
And it was really involved in the idea that there are people who live with mosquitos.
So, with energy, this was the only thing I could think of it.
I decided I decided flies like my contributation to the environmental here this year.
So here we have some natural fireflies.
My told that they are not particular, they're not going to leave this pot.
So, there are all kinds of gimmick-like solutions like this, but they don't really make anything.
We've got solutions of solutions -- an incredible scale, on an incredible scale and an incredible scale, although people in many directions, although people in many directions, I see there are actually only five that can supply a creature.
And then I let forces, geothermic energy, nuclear energy, biobrands out there.
And maybe something to be able to wear and if they expect it I expect, is that the most important point is that we have to work on every one of these five and we can't be work on every one of these five and we can't make it be so unfar, because they all have their own own own very difficult difficult, because they all have their own own own more important difficult to be able to make it more importantly, because they all have to be better than I expected
Let's look at the fossil fuels, or burning first burning of stead, or burning coal or burning coal or burn.
And what you have to do, maybe it's not simply simple, but that's not.
You've got to take all the CO2, under drugs, under pressure and make it happiness, and make it keeps there.
Now there are a number of proprojects that that are on the level of 60 to 80 percent -- but it will get to 100, but it will be very difficult and we need all that CO2 is also very hard to be very difficult to be very difficult term.
Who supply will know?
Who is going to be going to be able to do something that literally is bigger than whatever affall you can think in terms of nuclear or other things?
This is an enormous volume.
So it's hard.
The next one is nuclear energy.
Even three major problems.
The costs, with name in strong countries, his high.
The issue of the safety of safety that nothing can go wrong, while you have this human operators, that the split can't be used to nuclear weapons.
And what do you do with the way?
And, although it's not so much worries about it.
People have to have a good about it.
So three very difficult problems that may be solvable and needs to be working on the way to be working on it.
And the last three of the five, I grew the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three three of the last three three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three
These are some people often call the renewable sources.
And that -- although it is that they don't required -- yet a couple of a couple of a couple of call.
One is that the density of the energy of the energy through these technologies through these technologies are both increasing of an electricity.
And this is energibilities and you have it over many square kilometers, thousands of miles and more space than you need for a normal energy.
And, you know, these intermitting sources.
The sun is not suns the whole days, and not just the sun every day, not alway.
And so, if you're depending on these sources, you have to find a way to find energy during energy during that periods that they are not available.
So, we have big cost-challenges here.
We have transport challenges.
For example, this energy source outside your country, you know, you don't need the technology, but you need not just the technology of the energy of the energy from the energy of the energy from the energy of the energy from the energy of the energy from the energy of the energy source of the energy source of the energy source of the energy source of the energy source of the energy from the source of the energy from the source of the energy source of the energy.
And, finished, the problem.
And to make that visible, I looked at all kinds of battery batteries that are made in cars, for call, for phone, for phones, for phones, for phone, and all that the amount of electric energy that the world, and what I felt is that the amount of energy.
So we need a big breakthrough, something that a factor hundred better than the approach that we have now.
It's not impossible, but it's not easy.
And this is important if you try to get that unreliable source higher than 20 to 30 percent of what you use.
If you calculate for 100, you need a wonderbattery.
Now, how are we going to find advance: what is the right approach.
Is it a Manhattan project? How can we achieve this?
Well, we need a lot of companies that work, hundreds of hundred.
In each of these five pads, at least hundred people.
And many of them, many of you like that. That's good. That's good.
And, I think that here in the TED group, we have a lot of people who are already pursue this already already --
Bill Gross has different companies, which has a named eSolar that great thermal thermical solar technologies.
Vinod Khosla invests in 10 companies companies that are doing things and interesting possibilities, and I have to support that.
Nathan Myhrvold and I use a company that, maybe surprisingly, nuclear energy.
There are a nuclear powers in nuclear power, modules, and liquid of nuclear power.
And there is no innovation in this industry in this industry, so it's not so strange that there are good ideas.
The idea of Terrapower is that, instead of just a small part uranium -- one percent, which is one percent, which U-235, we decided to use the 9999 percent --
A little strange idea.
You have ever been talking about, but they couldn't simulate whether it's going to work.
But through the comst of supercomputers can right now.
With the right materials will probably work.
And because you use the 999 percent are reducing the cost enormously.
You use it -- you can use the waste and as fuel you can use all the survival reactors.
So instead of care, supply that new fuel of burning care, which is great!
It uses this uranium duranium response. It looks like a map.
You can see in this animation, often it becomes a "freactor reactor reactor.
For the fuel of the burning solution.
I have a picture of a place in Kentucky.
This is the nuclear waste is the 99 percent, where the 10.
So it's called uranium.
That's enough for hundreds of years.
And by a cheap of a cheap way, you get enough, you get enough, you get enough burning for the whole planet.
So, there's a lot of challenges for the future, but it's an example of the many hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of ideas that we need to go forward.
So let's think how do we measured ourselves?
How must report to look at it?
Let's see what we need to come out, and then we go to the way.
For 2050, speaking many people about 80 percent reduction.
And it's really important to get that.
And that 20 percent will be used by poor agricultural agriculture.
Hopefully we have clean forest and cement.
So, to get those 80 percent have to developed countries, including countries like China, their electricity production -- their electricity.
And the other dist: Passes are we excanding technology in all developed technology in all developed countries, and we have to introduce?
That's super important.
That's a major measure for that report.
So, how do it must be report for 202020,
Well, it must be following two eises.
We have to reduce that efficiency improvements the excited.
The less we excited, the less the CO2 gets the CO2 becomes the temperature.
But in some ways, the decades, the decades that we story, by doing things that don't bring us to the major explorations, only event, or maybe even less important than the other, that is the piece of innovation on this brought in this brakes.
We have to spend these speeding, and we can measure that measured in terms of business that measured things that has changed stuff that changed.
Here's a big number of beautiful books about it.
The book of Al Gore, "Our Keuic," and the book of David McKay book, "Duurzame Energy is under the hot air."
They're really good and they reward a cader that this can be decided that this can be decision, because we have to get a widely run.
There is a lot of that has to come together.
So this is a wish.
It's a very concrete wise that we invented these technology.
If you give me one wish for the next 50 years, I could choose who was president, I could be able to choose a vaccine, something that I could like something that was invented with the costs, without half of the cost CO2, this is the wish I could choose the wish.
This is the one with the largest impact.
If we don't get this wish, the separation between the people who think on short term and long term will be horrible between the U.S. and China, between poor and China, between poor and driving the lives of those two billion lions of those two billion of lions of those two billion lions of those two billion lions of those two billion lions of those two billion of those two billion lives.
So, what do we need to do?
What do I ask you?
We have to go for more funding of research.
If countries come together in places like Copenhas, they don't just talk about the CO2.
They need to speak this innovation agency, and you supposed to this innovative approach to this innovative approach to this innovative approach to this innovative approach.
We've got market, CO2-taxes, CO2-tax taxes and handle, something that the costs.
We need to extract the message.
This dialogue has to be understanding and understanding the government, with including the government.
This is an important wish, but I think we can reach it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Chris Anderson: Thank you.
Thank you very much. Now I understand more about Terrapower, okay -- I mean, the first place, you can give you a sense of the investment?
Bill Gates: To do only the software the supercomputer, all the major scientists, all the great scientists, which is just only 10 millions, and even though we have tested our materials in a Russian reactor to be sure that our materials in a Russian reactor that our materials, then it will be hundreds of millions.
The hard becomes the construction of the experimental reactor, finding the couple of the regulator, the site of the regulator, the site to actually build such a first device.
And once you have the first built, as this works like advertise, it's just considerable, because the economy, because the economy, the energy density, the energy as different than nuclear energy as different than nuclear energy as we know it.
CA: And yeah, to understand it, it's about building deep under the ground deep under the ground of nearly fuel of nuclear fuel of nuclear fuel of consumer uranium, and then it starts to the process and then it turns out to the solide and then it works and then it looks down to the soil?
BG: That's right. Today, the reactor, the reactor counts, so you've got a lot of people and many of the control that thing you have to open and all of the control that thing you have to open.
That's not good.
So, if you have a very cheap fuel that you can put 60 years, that you can put 60 years, you think of it as a background process -- they don't have that complexity.
And it's just going to put and burns on the year, and then it has been done.
CA: It's a nuclear centrale, who solved his own waste problem.
BG: Yeah. Well, what happens with the waste -- there's a lot less waste -- there's a lot less waste with this approach -- or you can actually take it away with this approach -- and you can actually take it away it there.
And we're starting to make the waste that exists today, that is in the reactor or or is takes in the reactor or is takes in the reactor or is taken up in the reactor is taken in the reactor.
That's our fuels to start.
So, what a problem was coming out of these reactors is actually what is introduced in the one, and you reduce the volume of the waste dramatic by this process.
CA: But in your global conversations about these opportunities, which is most interested to do anything.
BG: Well, we have no particular place, and there are no particular place, and there are all all everywhatever else across everything else called the nuclear important, so we enjoy enjoy in Rusland, India, China.
I have the state secretary of energy about this, to talk about this, to talk about how this past in the energy agenda.
So I'm optimistic. You know that the French and the Japanese and the Japanese --
This is a variant on something that's been done.
It's a major step forward, but it's like a quick reactor, and a lot of countries they built everyone who has been built a quick reactor is an potential candidate to build the first thing.
CA: So, in your mind, amazing and probability of something like this to get to the high now?
BG: Well, we have such for such electricity.
This is a kind of term that the environmental models we have to do the environmental models.
And, you know, Terrapower, as everything wells, which a lot of people wish.
And there are now, happy 10 companies, we need hundreds of hundreds of them -- who, indials their research, as the financiation for their proinstallations.
And it is the best if there are multiple because then you can use of a mix of these things.
We need at least one to sleep.
CA: In terms of possible changes on great scale, is this the biggest that you know?
BG: A energy breakthrough is the very important.
And that would have been that even without the environmental limitation, but the environmental limitation makes it right so much bigger.
In the nuclear sector are also other innoves.
You know, we don't know their work as well as well, but the modular people, but the modular people, which is another approach.
There is a type of fluid reactor, which seems a little bit hard like this.
So there are different, but the beauty of this is an uraniummolecule has a million times as much energy as much energy as much as a carbon molecule, and so if you can deal with the negative effects, which are the radiation and the costs, the footprint on the country and the cost of effects on the country and different things.
CA: If this isn't working, what th?
Do we start to start with the regulars of necessarily measured the temperature of the earth stable,
BG: If you come in that situation, it is as though you have overweight, and the point to get a heart attack.
Where are you going to take a hartop, or something.
There is a line of research called geo-engineering -- that his different techniques that the heats warming the solution warming of 20 or 30 years.
That's just a kind of insurance.
You hope you don't need that.
Some people say that you don't even have to work on such a confidence because it maybe you keep away that you keep a hartoper to save you.
I don't know whether that is the importance of the problem, but there is now the geo-engineering discussion to discussion, that has to happen in the back of case things that happen, or as the innovation is going to happen, or as the innovation is going to be expected.
CA: Climate sceptici: if you could say a or two sentences to them, how would you make them convinced that they are wrong?
BG: Well, unfortunately, the scepticions of different camps.
There are very few of them with scientific arguments.
Are they going to have negative feedback of negative feedback to the clouds.
There are very, very few things that they can still be able to job.
The main problem that we have just like AIDS.
You make the mistake, and you're paying a lot later.
And yeah, when you have all kinds of problems, the idea behind the idea behind the pain to get the pain to be able to get the advantage.
In fact, the IPCC report is not necessarily the worst scenario, and there are people in the rich world's worst of the IPCC and say, oke, oke, OK, and all of the IPCC and saying.
And it should be that uncertainty that shows us to this.
But my dream is that, if you can make it -- and you can make it following the CO2-limitations, then the CO2-cooticiers, you can't be CO2 from CO2 out of CO2 from CO2 from the CO2 from the CO2 of the CO2, but I'll be accepting it because it's cheaper than before.
CA: And that would be your response on the argument of Bjorn Lomborg, which is actually if you spend all this energy to solve the CO2--problem, is going to be that cost of all of your other goals to try to lose the world of poverty.
It's a damn of aid resource of aid resources to spend money to spend money that we can do with it.
BG: Well, the actual expenditure for that R&amp;D particular -- say that the U.S. every year, 10 billion more than now -- is not so dramatic than now -- is not so dramatic.
It doesn't have to be taken with other things.
It walks really cases, and it is really a lot about this, and you can do about this, when you try something that is uneconomic, when you try something that is uneconomic.
And that is, most of course, most of a waste of way.
And unless you very close to a solution and you just the teacher and you just the teacher and then it's very cheap.
I think we have to try to be more things that the potention to be much less expensive to be much less expensive.
And if it comes out of which you are starting to make the energy super expensive, then the energy super super super super super super super super super super super super super expensive.
I mean, we all could pay for five times, five times.
The disaster is that two billion.
And even Lomborg is changed.
His credo now, why is not talking about.
He gets still speaks, because of his earlier, associated with the skeptic camp, but he realized that a is a pretty camp, but he realized that a pretty camp, and this is the R&amp;D standpoint.
And so there is a red wire that I think I think of interest.
It's a little bit of how little the R&amp;D shared --
CA: Well Bill, I suspect that I speak out of the most people here here as I say, I really hope that your wish. Thank you.
BG: Thank you.
Lay part with you some months ago, when I discovered a few months ago, when I wrote an article for the italian Wired.
I love the thesaurus to the these, when I'm writing, but I was writing, but I was all ready with the stuff, and I thought I never had the word "innotion.
I read you the text.
"Invalide," pully: "Craililess, crazy, crowd, circle, crap, crowd, crazy, craf, crochad, crazy, impotent, crazy, craped the lamd, definite, definite, definitely ded, definitely disappotentially, to see the number, extent, extoo, extension, also s;
Antonice: healthy, capable."
I read this for a girl, and I had to laughing because it was so ridiculous but follow after "geman" began to break, and I had to stop my voice, and I had to stop the emotional shock and the clap that these words are causing the words.
Good, of course, this is a good old remember,
I think this is an old pressure, now.
But it was a pressure beginning from the early '80s, when I began with the lower school, and a picture of myself outside of my family and the world to the other children and the world to the world around me.
I don't have to say that I was not to say that thanks.
With this description seems as though I was born in a world in which someone like someone who was considered to say anything positive, while I'm right now, while I'm right now.
So I went to search for the 2009, online edition, and expectancy, and expectancy revision.
And this is the became the became a version of the text.
Jammer enough.
I think the last words in the last words under "Dist-straight antoni," "completely, completely and "celer."
It's not just about words.
It's about our opinion about people when we legs them with these words.
The values behind the words, and how we construct those values.
Our language affects us think and how we think and how we look at the world and how we look at other people.
A lot of old societies including the Greeks and the Roman and believed that the speak of a liquid so powerful because if you says something that is being true.
So what do we want to do is a person who is a person who is limited or a person who is?
And if we do something like that, if we do something like the crazy of a person, a child, then we are reperhaps, a shadow about their force.
Don't we rather doors for them?
Someone who was my doctors for me was my doctor when I was child at the A.I. Dupont, Institute in Wilmington, Delaware.
He's called Dr. Pizzutillo.
Italian American Americans, whose name was to speak to speak, so he was Dr. P. P.
Dr. P. P. always was very colory strikdles and had precisely the good institution to work with kids.
And I remember almost everything in the time I was in that disease, with exception of the physian-sessions.
I had to do a nearly number of repetitions with that thick elastics -- different colors -- different colors -- to build my own spiring.
I hate that elastics more than everything.
I hate them, gave it took them.
As five-year-olds I already already all with Dr. P. for exercise under that exercise.
And one day, he came up with a session -- exhausted and genadelusion, and he said, "Wow. Aime: "Wow. Aimee, you're such such a strong, powerful girl.
And if you let me give you a hundred dollar."
Of course, this was a tactical of Dr. Pre, to make me the exercise that I didn't want to do with the exercise that I wouldn't do with the five-year-old girl girl of the department, but what he did for me was that he was a new, far, far, far, far, far, far, following experience.
Today, I'm going to ask me, I wonder in how fishing his vision and his demand that I was a powerful girl, my self-inherent, my self-strong and atletical person to the future.
This is an example of how adults in power sposities can be able to wake the power of a child.
But in the previous situations of that thesesaurus-text language of our evolution to the reality that we all would like to think of the individual to the individual to see themselves.
Our language is following the changes in society, and many of that are reminded by technology.
With name, from medical point, my legs, my legs, both treatments for sleeping and couldness, and couldness, and make sure that people do more do with their capability to describe so forth to their potentified by the nature of nature and away from the nature of social networking platforms that people can describe with the world's groups to describe the world, and they can describe able to describe that they can describe with the world,
So maybe a lot of technology is now showing us a lot of truth has been an truth: that everybody has something extraordinary and something powerful has something more powerful and ability to adapty.
And the ability of human capacity is interesting, because everybody wants to talk to me about constantly the front of consideration and I'm going to talk about, and I'm going to know something.
And that sentenceed me that sentence, and it felt uncomfortable to answer the questions of people to answer the questions of people,
And the frame implicates that success of contradiction that means success or happiness that means you go again after a challenging experience, without a scraped experience, without a sheet of the ability to have the ability to have the ability of a life with artists of a life with artists of a life with artists, what others like my hands as my hands.
But in fact, we are changed by a challenging by a challenge, whether it's physically, emotional or both.
And my argue is that a good thing.
Actually, not obstacle is not obstacle that we need to be able to live.
It's a part of our life.
I have tend to see it as my shadow.
Sometimes I see a lot of them, sometimes very few of them, but it's always like me.
I'm not going to sure the impact and the importance of somebody.
There is a contradiction and challenge in life, and it's all really and for everyone else, but the question is not before you have to get up with it.
So our responsibility is not simply to protect our neighborhood to protect it.
We're not pointing our children as we make them feel that they're not able to fit that they're not going to be able to address it.
There's a major difference and distinguished between the objective fact that I am an amputeed and the subjective society on whether I won't invitating inition.
In fact, the only real hands that I came up with the world that I came up with the world that was always that you could describe me with that definitions.
And in our desire to protect our neighborhood facts of their medical medical of their medical ship, or even a progone from life, we need to make sure that we're not the first stone.
Perhaps the current way of looking at what piece is going to repair and how we need to repair it, someone more invalue than the pathology.
By not to go from the universe of a person won't recognize, not to recognize, we create a new disease of the natural room that they may have already to.
In fact, we add the ordinary value for our society for our society.
So we have to look at the pathology to look at the scala of human ability.
The most important thing is that there is a collaboration between those visible text and our best creative power.
It's not about that hard to devalue those hard or to devalue that we want to avoid or under the floor, but to discover that possibilities to discover that possibilities.
And perhaps the idea that I want you to take that you don't have to recommend that you have to be surved, but you have to open for it, but you have to be able to use the rooms, and maybe even though though to use it.
And if we see consistent and naturally consistent and useful, we'll feel less by it.
And this year, we had the 200th birthday of Charles Darwin, and when he wrote 150 years ago about evolution Darwin the human character.
Frine transly, it's not the strongest species that survive, nor the most intelligent, but the kind of intelligent, but the kind of change.
Conflict is the genesis of creation.
Another of Darwin's work we can work that the human ability to survive and to survive and driven by the mental gets through conflicts to transformation.
Again, transformation, transformation, which is our biggest ability.
And until we don't know what we aren't know what we aren't what we are.
And one of the case is that consciousness, a sense of self-consciousness of our own force.
So we had to give ourselves.
We can imagine opportunity.
Maybe we can see it as change.
Actually, is changed that we haven't adapted.
And I think the most important contradiction that we have given ourselves the understanding normality."
Who is there normal?
There is no normal.
There is ordinarary. There is typical. There is no normal.
And who should meet the poor graue person.
I didn't think it's not to it.
If we can get the paradigm to normality to normality of possibilities, or potention, or potention, or potential -- then we can be able to get the power of many more children, and they extend to share their rare and valuable to share and valuable to share and valuable to share with the community.
Anthropologists telling us that the only thing that we need people to have our group of our groups.
There are attention of that Neanderthals 60,000 years ago, their parents and they were reachieved, maybe because the life's living experience and survival of value for the society for the society, they were not as a broken and useful as the rare and values; they were seeing as self.
A few years ago, I was on the market in the village that I grew up in the north piece in north Pennsylvania, and I was forced about a tros.
It was summer. I had a short breed.
I heard a man behind me, "If that Aimee Mullins."
I turned around, it was an older man. No idea who he was an idea who he was it.
I said, "Pardon, do we know each other? I can't remember that.
He said, "It's good possible that you don't know that we know each other.
And when we meet me come out of your mother."
Oh, that vent.
And of course, when the quarters.
This guy was doctor Kean, a guy that I only know through my mothers my mother's stories of that day, because I came to let my own birthday.
And my mother's mother's prentice was already, so the guy that was really a weird for my parents.
And because I was born and without sheet, and a couple of tens, and a couple of tens, and a couple of the news news.
He said to me, "I had to say, "I had to walk your parents that you could never be able to walk, and never have the movement freedom that other children and totally couldn't have life and totally independent life, and then you have a fun.
The extraordinary is he told him that he has collected collectures for my childhood time, or it was collected my childhood class in the second class in the second classroom in the second classroom, my university, my university -- my university winner -- or one of my sportion and he used it in his integrated in his sporders students at Hahman.
Of course he called the x-factor, the potential of the human will.
No progress can predict how powerful this can be as defining factor for the quality of someone.
Dokter Kean went on and he said, "I think that if it's not contradicted that, if it is not contrained and even with only constraining, a child of itself."
You see, doctor had been thinking has changed.
He understood that is a difference between the medical condition and what someone could do with it.
And in the course of time my thinking about, if you had asked me as 15-year-old, or I would have asked my art or I wouldn't do a moment of real legs for real legs -- I had not doubt.
I used to pursuch a normality.
If you ask me, I don't know it yet.
That's because of the experiences that I haven't been with not despite the experiences that had with it.
Maybe this is changed because I'm expowered to people who have been exposed to people who have been taken for me then to those who wanted to take me and days.
Look, you've only got one human that shows you the public of your own force, and there you go out there.
If you can give someone the key to his own force, the human spirit is so definitely if you can open it and in an essential moment a door for someone can open a door for someone can open the best way.
You teach them door.
The exact meaning "education."
And that means that some insists are bringing in and potentially bringing outside.
So again, which potential we want to get outside,
There was a case-study in the '60s in England, where they went from gymnasia to school.
It's called "streaming trial." In the United States, we call it.
They're departs in 10, 9, 7, 7, etc.
The 10-students have a hard to get a difficult paket, the best teachers, etc.
For a three months of three months they gave 4-students had a 10, and they were told a 10, and they were 10, and they were intelligent.
On the end of the three months, they were at 10-level.
And the heart ship of this study is that they were the 10-students that they were telling the 10-students that they were celebrator.
And that also happened to three months.
Those of those who were still in school, next to the people who had gotten down.
A crucial part of this research was that the teachers had been kept for the critic.
The teachers didn't knew that there was something that was refront.
And there it was tell: these are the students with teens, this one with fours.
And so they were so treatment, and they treat them.
I think the only real hands is a cnaked a cnaked a cnaked crazy doesn't know.
He doesn't see a beauty.
He's the natural curious curiosity is not to regular as well.
If we can reinstead of the spirit to keep hope to keep themselves and others, to see beauty and anothers, to be curious and fantasy and fantasy our power.
And if a mind this qualities in this qualities to create new reality, we are able to create new ways to be able ways to be able to be able to be able to be new ways to be there.
I want to close with a poem by a rearti-century Persian poem-century Persic poem has told Jacques Dembois told me,
The poem is called "The god that just know."
"Each child knows God, not knowing the God of nearly not the God of do, but the God that only know four words that he repetes only know four words with me.
Thank you.
