A few years ago, Peter Skillman here, at TED, a designer at TED, a design competition.
The marshmallow-challenge.
The idea is free is pretty simple: Gres of four as possible building, with twintimate piece of spaghetti, a meter tape and a marshmallow.
The marshmallow to up.
And, although it sound, it turns out, it turns out, because this assigns people to work very quickly together.
And because I found this is an interesting idea, I decided, I decided to take it in a design.
And it was a big success.
Since then, I have this exercise in about 70 design workshops around the world with students, designers and architects and architects and architects of Fortune 50-companies.
And this exercise gives us deep insights in how people work together, and I want to share with you.
Normally, is the first step that people are preparing on the case.
They're talking about, and they're going to look at it.
Then they're going to organized.
They're sketches and spaghettile.
Most of the time they build increasing bigger building.
And at the end, when the time is almost of time is taking someone the marshmallow him to put it careful up on the top, do a step back and ... Tad!
They're amazing their work.
But what really happens, most most of them is that the "tools in a oh oh oh," because the weight of the marshmallow the entire building.
Bepal people have more of those "oh oh moments than others.
What of the worst have been graded, with a MBA.
They're going to play challenged, and they make pretty extremely building.
And then, of course, there are teams that makes a lot more "touched building.
And in the best of those are graded.
That's just impressive.
And Peter tells us, that they make not just the highest of the most interesting.
So what do you sugges: How can this: How can this?
Peters answer is: "None of the kids is spilling the boss of the Spaghetti BV." Jist.
They're not wasting game games.
But there's another reason.
And that is that economists and trained to find the only right solution.
And then they're going to do it.
But what happens, when they put the marshmallow the marshmallow, is that they don't have time.
It's a disaster.
You know?
What little biggers do --
is that they start with the marshmallow.
They build prototypes, and new prototype,
increasing the marshmallow up, so they have more opportunities to repair prototypes.
Remember this shape of collaboration as the basis of an iterative process.
In every version of every version of the children measures of what does not work.
So building prototypes is very important.
But let's see how different teams.
The average for most people is about 50 cmix.
Here's the economists of the lawyers, it's not much better, but not much better.
Moters, better than most adults.
Who does it?
Architects and engineers, happy.
And the highest building was a high.
And why? Because they understand triangles, and self-extincite medical structures are the key to build stable.
CEOs, something better than average.
But now it gets interesting: if you put a secretaring aresse at the team of team.
Remember, you can see the team and thinking, "They're going to win.
And you can see that from teach. And why?
Because they are good at support to support.
They understand the process.
And every team that's good regulars and attention for the work is going to get the performance of that team.
Gespecialized and supporting skills.
And if you have a normal 10 teams this will have the six a city.
And I tried something interesting.
I thought, we make it some exciting.
So I'm going to winning 10,000 dollars on the winning team.
And what do you think these design students?
What happened?
The next thing.
No cell had a city building.
For example, for example, which was a centimeter, was enough to win.
Interesting that a higher impully.
We repeated the exercise with the same students.
And what do you think it happened?
So now they understand the use of prototypes.
And this team in one of the worst team in one of the exist.
They made the highest construction in the least time.
So that's a good lessons about the nature of rewards and success.
You're going to spend you: Why would be spending time to write a marshmallow challenge?
The reason is, I work with digital tools and processes and processes to help teams in building cars, computer games and visual effects.
And the marshmallow-challenge helps them to get the hidden behind the hidden.
Because, frankly, every project has his own marshmallow, right?
And the challenge of a shared experience, a common language, a common language to make the best prototype to make the best prototype of prototype.
So that's the value of the experience of this so simple exercise.
And for who are interested in order to marshmallowed to marshmallow.com.
And on this blog you can see how to build the mashmallows.
There are standing of stapinstructions.
There are examples of how people all around the world's tricks.
There are also global records.
And the fundamental lessis, I think that design is really a contactsport.
And it required the inside of all our senses, and that we feel very best thinking and execution for the challenge of challenge for the challenge to us.
And sometimes a tiny prototype of this experience to be enough to change.
And that makes a big difference.
Thank you very much.
So let's just suppose that we have a great machine, a great machine, a great machine, a great machine, a very great machine, a while machine.
And everybody.
And you can remain time or forward in time, but not here and now.
I am legged what you would choose, because I have the last time.
They all want to go back to time before cars or Twitter or "American Idol,"
I don't know.
I am convinced that there is a certain hand.
And I can get in there.
But I don't hear there, I have to say.
I don't want to go back, and not because I'm so adventured -- but it's possibilities -- but it's possibilities of this planet.
They're not going to go forward.
So I also want to be in the machine and I want to go forward.
We live in the great time on this planet on the planet on the planet on the planet on the planet on the planet on the planet, opportunities of disease.
Never had been like this.
My major grandparents all around the 60.
My grandparents all the 70.
And my parents are already in the 80.
So I want to take a piece in the 90.
But it's not just about us.
There is much more on the game.
A child that today in New Delhi is born has a life expectation to that of the richest man in the world 100 years.
Think about that. That's an incredibly fact.
And why is that true?
The smallpox. The smallpox billions of people on this planet.
They had an impact on the demography of this world bigger than that of any war.
But they don't exist. They're gone away.
We have it over. We have them over.
In the wealthy world existing disease, which a generation of millions of people are threatened as well.
Difteria red lamming lamming ...
anyone here knows what that was?
Inentations, modern medicine our opportunities to prevent billions of food method to prevent billions of the scientific method.
And for me, the scientific method, the scientific method, and it doesn't works and it doesn't works and not leave indionals, one of the largest consideration of humanity.
That's the good news.
But sptiely enough is that the only good news because there are some other problems because there are a couple of other problems, and one of them is that, despite all our amazingly, there are always a billion people hungry to the world, every day.
Their couple of take, and it takes quickly and that is a shape.
And not just that, we also used our imagination to expect this world to be able to dirt this world.
Drinkable water, agricultural rainforests, oil, they're disappear, and fast, and if we are going to be able to work, and we will disappear.
The question is this: Can we think about that?
I think it is clearly that we are able to make food for billions of food for billions without the country without the country that we live in life.
I think we can imagine this world of energy forms that couldn't help it.
I believe that one, no, that's not a wish.
But now is that what I wake in the night, one of the things that I'm wacking at night.
Now, we've ever been so dependent on the scientific advances of scientific advancement, and we never have been able to create use as we can.
We are on the threshort of the most amazingly amazing advancement.
And yet, I really think that we have hundreds of years, say, only 300 years, you have to go back to the time of the United State, to find a time we supposed to advancement, that we had these regions of heart and more area,
People are hanging their faith with such a heart stuntil that it is impossible.
And listening, everybody has right on his own people; everyone has no right on the right, but you know where you have no right, but you know where you have no right?
You've no right on your own facts. No, that you don't have that you have not.
And I did a while about it.
A teental years ago I wrote a story about inentions for "The New Yorker," a short story.
I was amazing amazing opposite to find the most effective measured for the public health in history.
I don't know what I do, so I wrote a story about it, and I just wrote a story.
I wrote a story about genetic manipulated food.
You know the same, but still worse this.
People were crazy.
So I also wrote there a story, and I couldn't understand why people found this food, why people found this food, why they thought it was manipulating molecules in a targer, instead of an accidentally, instead of the nature was a retraction against the nature was a retraction against the nature was a story,
But, you know, I do what I do. I wrote a story and went to the order of the day. I'm now a journalist; we're going to eat, we're going to eat and that's that.
But these stories turn me these stories, I couldn't be able to do why, but eventually well.
And because that was fanatics that made me in fact, which made me wasn't fanatics.
They were fatsoever, well, fatsoon.
Not like the people in this room.
And it was just that what me.
but then I thought, you know, let's be honest, we are in this world that we haven't come to this world that we haven't come to advancement as well.
We are speaking two.
We speak ironic as between across crows.
"Forward."
OK, there are reasons and I think that we know it.
We've lost the belief in institutions in the science of themselves, and there is no reason not a reason.
You just have to fall a couple of names and people understand it.
Tsjernobyl, Bhopal, the Challenger, Viox, mass destruction, mass destruction, not very well through ponsks.
I mean I mean you can put together.
There are problems and problems with those people that we thought they were always right.
So Wees skeptic.
Imal questions, ask and evidence evidence.
But now, if you get evidence, you have to address it and then you have to attention and we are not so well.
And the reason I can say that is that we are in a unprecisely unprecise and we hope that we hope to be so flight as possible.
About 12 years, there was a horrible story, that an amazing between the epidemic of autism of autism of autism, and the inention, bor and rodehd.
Again a natural.
Hopoping studies were invented to go whether this was true.
And that had to do it was a serious thing.
The data came up.
They were found in the United States, in England, in England, in Canada, in Canada, and everywhere.
But it wasn't doing not allowed to do it because we believe, we believe what we think about anecdotes, we believe what we think and what we think about and what we really think about how to feel and what we really think about it.
We can't have a lot of papers a lot of papers from an official government that data, and I can come up with that, and I can come up with that, and I think we all can.
But you know what?
And the consequences were disaster, disaster, and the fact: The United States are one of the few countries in the world where the number of inents in the world where the number of inenties in the world where the number of inents in the world where the mays.
That's a scand, and we ought to shame.
it's terrible.
What's going to deal with us that we could deal with?
Now, I understand it. I understand it. I understand it.
Who gets who gets towards here?
Does anyone of this audience?
Combs don't of.
And here's already not anymore, but it happened last year 160,000 times in the world.
That's a bunch deaths by maybe, 20 per hour.
But because it doesn't happen anymore, we can repull the revenue, and people like Jenny McCarthy McCarthy McCarthy to spread in expanding from the Oprah and Larry Live Larry King Live Larry King Live.
And they can do that because they can't make sure between the causes and accidents of conditions of conditions.
They're not understanding that these things seem to be practical.
And that is something that we need to learn and we have to learn to learn to learn to learn to lear.
This guy was a hero, Jonas Salk.
He free us of one of our worst things.
No far, no death competition. Polio, pood, away.
That guy in the middle of the middle.
It's called Paul Offit.
He developed a vaccine against the rotavirus together with some other people.
It saved the lives of about 400,000 children in the third world.
Good, right?
Well it is good, except that Paul around, except of vaccines, and how valuable they are.
and that people should be able to keep with it.
And so he says it says,
So Paul is a terror.
If he holds a public toward a public towards.
He gets the home phone calls because there are people who are price to say that they know where his children.
And why? Because Paul has developed a vaccine.
I don't have to say, but the vaccines are immediate.
Take them the disease, and the disease, terrible disease, and that's what happens right now.
We have maybed this country in this country.
And it's still going to be wrong and soon.
And they're not going to do not just maybe.
What with polio? Why not?
A former measure student wrote me a few weeks, and said that they found me a few weeks,
No one has ever said that.
She wasn't allowed her child against polion.
In no case.
Good.
Why? Because we have no polio more. And you know what?
Yesterday, not a polio here.
But, who knows, who knows, maybe someone on an airplane in Lagos Angels, and he flieds Los Angels, he's now above Ohio.
Within a couple in a couple of hours and come to Long Beach, where he's going to go to Long Beach.
And he didn't realize that he decided to a paralyzing disease, and we don't know it because it's going to be that.
That's the planet that we live in. That's the planet doesn't help up.
We're going to let us rather includes. And we love it.
Does everyone is swell?
Echinacea, a little antioxidant to the day?
I know it because the Americans do it every day.
They're smarching it and they use alternative medicine, and it doesn't matter how often we discover that they're value.
The data, the data always point it again.
They are never making your urine. And they never practical more than that.
OK if you want to spend 28 billion dollars for darker urine, Dan is that just like this.
Donch urine. Donker.
Why do we do that? Why do we do that? I understand hate Big Pma.
We hate the government. We married that politics.
And it has to be health provisions --
They're that for millions of our countries.
They're amazingly astonishing even for those under us that they can perhaps.
So we walk away from it, and where are we walk?
We jumped in the poor of Big Placebo.
Da's great. I love Big Placebo.
But, you know, this is very because the entire pursuit and we give billions of dollars.
I brought a couple of those things.
Ginkgo, chinacea, chinacai, acai, I don't know what that is, but we care of the billions of dollars.
And you know what? If I leave the people against me, and they say, "What can you should, and they say, "What can it shell? Let the people do? Let the people do.
They're feeling."
And you know what? You're wrong.
Because it cannot be able to make me whether the secretary of health service-health service that says, "HI'm not going to give me a consequence."
or some cancery caught salver that will be patients.
If you starts with evidence and science and science by belief and magic than finally you want to get to extend to be true.
Then you get in the South Africa of Thabo Mbeki.
He's responsible for the death of 400,000 of his people by confront and quoil and quoil, and quote and quote the antiviral resources.
Hundreds of thousands of notook in a country that already has been taken by this disease.
Don't tell me that these things.
They have them alway. They have them alway.
Now the most thought, is the most attempted epidemic in which we are now the absurd that absurd between genetic engineered food and the organic elit."
It's an idiot debat. It has to stop it.
It's about metaphor.
It's ideology, no science.
Everything that we eat, every shorrely spriring, every single letopy, every single brusions -- is by human.
And if you think that were in the physics."
There was no watermeloes.
Even Christmas bombs. They all come from us.
We created them in the course of the last 11,000 years.
Some of those products and some of those products and wouldn't get it.
We discovered our of what we have.
Now we can do the same in a more recording way.
And, certainly, there are risks.
But we can produce vitamine vitamine that can be able to live and longer.
You don't want to do it?
I have to say, that I don't understand it.
We don't want a genetic modified food.
And why?
Well, you hear the whole time.
We don't like companies that take patents on living patents on living things.
We don't want companies the ownerships.
And you know what I response?
You're right. Let's do something about it.
It's true. It's true. It's true.
It has nothing to do with science.
This is going to know this is a patents.
Science is not a society.
No country.
Even idea; it's a process.
It's a process and sometimes it works and sometimes.
But the idea that we have to store the science to do her work because we are really working for it because we really worked and millions of people, and millions of people, and millions of people.
You know what, in the next 50 years, we will take to 70 percent we need more food than today.
70 percent.
This graph the graph of the investment in Africa for the last 30 years.
Scandalig. Schandaly.
They really need it to remember it.
And the reason? Genetically manipulated food.
We don't want people don't want people to cassave food as cassave for example,
Cassave is the daily food of a half billion people; it seems what it looks like.
It only has a lot of calories. Warls a lot of calories.
And it contained not foods like protein, and scientists like proteins, and scientists are doing something about that.
So that people can eat it.
They wouldn't you know what?
It wouldn't be a haute cuisine, but it would be fin.
And everything I have to say is this: Why are we contravic?
I mean, let's ask ourselves: why are we contrast it?
Because we don't want to create with gene?
And this is going to be transform with chemicals with chemicals.
And, not with our ridiculous passion for hormones, our desire to more, better and special eat.
It's not about Rice Krispies, it's going to keep people in life.
and it goes to understand what that wants to say.
Because you know what?
If we weren't do it, and as we are nothing that we don't want to be nothing that we don't want to be, high-tech colonialism.
I don't think that I don't like to describe this better.
It’s selfish and learn, and we need to do something about it.
So after this incredibly engaged to say, "You might want to say, "You might want to say, "You want to say, "You always want to say, "You're always traveling machine?"
Absolutely I want that.
Now it's still in the universe, but we have an amazing opportunity.
We can do that time machine for everything we want to use.
We can bring them to a future that we want, and we're also going to bring them to where we want.
We need to continue with these excitements and we have to stay think, but if we step and forward forward, we will be happy that we have done.
I know that we can do it, and that is, for what I do, something that needs to know.
Thank you.
Thank you.
A columnist of the Los Angeles Times...
Steve Lopez, walking on a day.
by the center of Los Angeles...
when he heard beautiful music.
And it came from a guy.
A black man.
Charmant, lost. Charmant.
HIther played on a violin the violin and two strength.
I'm telling something that many of you all know.
because the columns of Steve was the basic ...
for a book that a film.
Robert Downey Jr. plays the role of Steve Lopez.
and Jamie Foxa that of Nathaniel Anthaniel Anthony Ayers:
the classic was the classistance,
These are a lot of career.
because he was suffering schizophrenia.
Nathaniel stop the Juilliardconservatory --
and 30 years later he swhaping ...
by the poorest streets of Los Angeles.
You'd have to read or the film.
Not only for the beautiful --
that was made between these two guys.
But also to see what role play --
a instrumental roll, if I say that this is so magic.
to get Nathaniel of the street.
I met Ayers in 2008.
two years ago, in a Disney-concerney:
And he had listened to an execution of the 1th and 4th symphony of Beethoven,
and the backstage and backstages.
He spoke to a jovial and social ways.
about Yo-Ma and Hillary Clinton.
HIy said that the Dodgers never the World Series would never get the World Series.
Everyth, all of a hard viool.
in the last part of the fourth symphony of Beethod.
We're talking about music. Later I got a mail of Steve-...
that Nathaniel that Nathaniel of will.
You have to know that Nathaniel don't want to be treated.
And when he was treated treated shock therapies ...
chlorpromazine and hands ...
and that has drawn for his lifetime.
And the result is that he has now.
numbers of schizophrenia.
Actually, the worst attacks.
and it suddenly ...
and he disappear.
He sworks on the street ...
and lives with that narity and the worder in his head ...
that sequence.
Nathaniel invented in such such this --
when we began to our first lesses.
He had a manical gue in their eyes.
He was disappeared.
He talked about.
invisible.
and someone who wanted him to him up.
I was scared.
Not for myself, I was afford ...
I would raise him ...
that he would take away in such an attacks,
and I would be relationship with the violin --
If I started talking about shows ...
and arpeggios and other example ...
from what you learn to teaches.
So I began to play.
I played the first part of the vioolconcert of Beethod.
And while I play ...
I saw a clear change ...
in the eyes of Nathanile.
It was as though an invisible.
A chemical response for which my play ...
the catalyzed.
The manical excitement of Nathaniels.
changed in understanding.
In sille curiosity.
As a wonder packed his own viols.
and began to play.
Bepal fragments of foolconcerten...
I had to describe -- Mendels --
Tchaikovsy, Sible.
We started talking about music, from Bach...
Beethoven and Brahmas ...
Bruckner, all Bs.
From Bart until to Esa-Pekka Salonen.
I saw in that he wasn't all ...
a encyclopedic music knowledge,
but he was personally, he was personally, by that music.
He was talking about the same passion,
and the same understanding as I and my colleagues ...
from the Los Angeles Philharmonic.
And by making music and talk about music and talk about music --
was this guy changed ...
of the paranoid guy --
that directly of the states,
from Los Angeles,
in a charman,
brilliant classic music.
Music gene: Music changes us.
For Nathaniel is music a healthy mind.
And by music he can he could have his thought,
and severtions --
through his fantasy and creativity ...
in reality.
This is how it seem.
They were trouble attacks.
I saw that the essence of art.
That's why we make music.
And that we take something that in all of us.
in our core.
Our emotions.
And that we learned our artistic learning ...
through our crativity that emotions can reform to reality.
The reality of that expression,
I reached us.
We are getting up, inspired and multiply.
Nathaniels.
It was a group of music back.
The saving force of music brought him.
in a family of musicians
that he understood ...
These are talents talents ...
and that him respected.
I'm going to stay music with Nathanile.
Or it now Walt Disney Concert Hall is ...
or on the street. He reminds me.
why I have become musician --
Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Robert Gupta.
I want to play something that I shooming cellists of celles.
First me.
I'm Jane McGonigal. I'm a game designer.
Al 10 years, I make games.
And my purpose for the next decades is to make it easy to save the world in real life.
Now, I have a plan, and this plan, and that plan to convince more people, you all including more time to spend more time to spend more time.
At this moment we play three billion hours a week online games.
Some of you probably, some of you probably, "That's a lot of time to play."
Maybe a lot of time, there may be so much important problems in the real world.
But actually, I think my research at the Institute For the Toever, which is the opposite is true.
Three billion hours a week is not enough to solve the world's major problems.
More -- I believe that if we want to survive the next century on this planet.
I calculated that we need in totally 21 billion hours a week.
That's probably a strange idea, so I'm going to leave it again, I'm going to let it.
If we want problems to solve problems like hungry, climate change, global conflict, worldwided conflict, I believe that we have to try to play we'll be able to try to play wealthy the end of the next decade of the next decade of the next decade.
This is the reason. This photograph, this photograph, why games are so important for the future of humanity.
This is a portrait by a photograph, Phil Tolean.
He wanted to pick the emotion of the game.
So he put a camera for gamers while they play.
And this is a classic emotion.
Now, if you're not a gamber, you'll probably some nuances in this photograph.
You probably see the feeling of pressure, but also intense intense concentration, a deep focus to solve a very difficult problem.
If you're a gamber, you'll have a couple of nuances here, the shell around the eyes and mouth is a sign of optimism.
The wishs craws to be a sign of surprise.
This is a gamber who is going to be called an epic stor."
Ah, you know that. Okay, good.
So we have a couple of gamers.
A "epic win" is an outcome, which is so incredibly positive, that you didn't know that it was possible.
It was almost not to imagine.
And when you're surprised to figure out what you really art. That's an epic story. That's an epic story.
This is a gamber on the point of an epic win."
And this is the face that we have to look at millions of problem solvents around the world while we're trying to deal the next century of the next century of the next century.
The face of someone, against all the expectations, on the point is an epic.
But unfortunately we're seeing this face in the daily life while we are trying to packaging problems.
This is what I call Ben No God in the Leven."
And this is I actually does it does. Can you can see it? Yeah.
And this is the "I Niet God in the Leven."
This is a piece graffiti in my old neighborhood neighborhood in Berkeley, California, where I did in the real life.
And this is a problem that have a lot of gamers.
We don't feel that we're not just good at the reality as we are in games in reality as we are.
And I mean not just successful, even though that there is part of it.
And we reached a little games. But I mean, but I mean, but I also mean with good motivate to do something, inspired to work together.
And when we are in a game world, I believe that most of us the best version of our best version of ourselves, the most likely to help.
the most likely to keep as long as it needed to stay for a failure.
And if we got a failure, a failed teges, when we are confronts, when we are confronts, we don't feel so on.
We feel overwhelming us.
And we feel depressed, maybe depressed or cynical.
We never have that feelings as we play.
they just don't exist in games.
So that's what I wanted to study when I was a student.
What part of games is the impossible we feel like we can't achieve everything.
How can we take those feelings of games and make them in the real world?
So I looked games like Word of Word or Warcraft, which is the ideal cooperative environment to solve problems.
And I began to notice some business that "epic wins" in the online world.
The first thing that I noticed is that every time you get in one of those online games -- especially Warcraft, there are very much different characters that you like to allow a world-saving mission,
But not just a mission, a mission, a mission, a perfect that is adapted to your level in the game. Yeah?
So, you can do it.
They never give you a challenging you a challenge that you can't attention.
But it is the extremely of your opportunities. So you have to try hard.
But there is no employment in World or Warcraft.
You can't be something.
There is always something specific and important.
And there are a lot of contributgers.
Every place where you go, there are hundreds of thousands of people who are willing to help your epic crib.
That's something that we have in real life difficult, that sense that sense that within our will.
And also that there is an epic story, this inspiring story that we are here and what we do.
And then all the positive feedback that we get.
You've been heard of a level engineering and plus-a force, and plus an intelligence.
Son' constant fact that we don't get the real life.
When I went from this stage of stage this stage, I won't get message of this stage, plus-20 crowd idea, plus-20 numbers idea.
I don't get in the real life. I don't get in real life.
Now, the problem with collaborative online worlds like World of World of World or Warcraff or Warcrafying a very, very time at the point of an epic story, that we decide all our time.
It's just better than the reality.
Today, World of World or Warcraff of players, all too 5.93 million years.
Now, that's not necessarily anything.
It sounds maybe bad it.
To clearly clearly, 593 million years ago.
And that was the first right. And that was the first right.
All right, so if we talk about the amount of time that we invest in playing games, is the only way it has is the only way it has in the sense of the human evolution, is just by talking about time in the context of the human evolution, which is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary, which is an extraordinary thing that
But it's also turns out. Because it turns out, through so many time to spend so many time to play from games, we are going to be able to where we be able to be able to be as people in it.
We evolve to a kind of cooperative and opright.
This is true. I believe this.
So, think about this interesting.
It was recently by a researcher of the Carnegie Mellon University published.
The average young person today, in a country with a country with a major culture, 10,000 hours have been taken by the time he is 21 years old.
Now, 10,000 hours is a very interesting digit for two reasons.
First of all, for children in the United States is 10.80 hours the exact amount of time that you spends at school from the fifth teacher teachers to you graduate if you are all the time.
So we have an equalities of education where young people are learning about the case as a lot of teaching all the rest in school.
Some of you probably have Malcom Malcom Gladwell's book.
So you probably heard of his successful, the 10,000 hours success.
It's on this amazing, cognitive scientific research, that says that if we can have 10,000 hours of useful to be able to control the only thing that we can become virtuots.
We'll be a very good at the world, we will do as the best of the world.
And so, what we're seeing is a whole generation young who are virtuos in the games.
So, the big question is, "Where are gamers then so well?"
Because, if we can get a virtual unprecedented to human potential.
This is the number of people play in the world at least one hours a day online.
These are our virtuoses.
500 million people who are extraordinary in something.
And in the next decade decade, we'll have a billion gamers that are extraordinarily in something that are extraordinary.
If you don't know it.
The gaming-industry is consoles of the developing that requires needed and with wireless networks rather than band instead band the gamers of the world, especially in India, China and Brazil, China and Brazil, and Brazil.
They're expecting a billion gamers over the next decades.
That brings us to 1.5 billion gamers.
So I asked me wonder that we're going to be such a virtuos.
I found four business, the first is burning optimism.
Okay, you can see this as extreme self-motivation.
Branhind optimism is the wants to do measure, to pick up a hindeed with the belief that we have a reasonable opportunity on success.
Gamers always believe that a "epic win" is possible, and that it's always worth worth to try and try to try and try to try and try to try and try to try and try to try and try and try to try and try to try and try and try to try and try to try and try and try and try to try and try to try and try and try to try and try to try and try to try and try and try and try and try to try and try and try and try and try and try to be it.
Gamribs don't cut up.
Gamers are virtuos' virtuos are virtuos in the rock.
There is a lot of interesting research that we play that we play a game with them.
The reason is that you need familiar to play a game to play a game --
We're confident that they're going to play with their time, that they're going to play the same rules, that they're going to play the same.
So a game play with someone the underling band, the confidence and the confidence and the collaboration.
And as a result, we actually build more stronger social relationships.
Last productivity.
You know, there's a reason that the average World of World of Warcraft, 22 hours a week, almost like a half a week.
And that's because we know that when we play a game -- we are actually happy to work hard than if we are hanging or somewhere.
We know that we made as humans to be hard, useful.
And gamers are always willing to work, if they get the right work.
And eventually, epic meaning.
And Gamers would like to be built on the planetary scale, to stories of planetary scale.
So a small rotiny to make that clear.
You all know Wikipedia, the biggest wikipedia in the world.
The second largest wiki in the world, with almost 80,000 articles is the World Warcraft.
Five million people use it every month.
They have more info about World or Warcraff of World or Warcraft on the Internet than any other collapsed by another way.
They build an epic story.
They build an epic source of knowledge about World of Warcraft.
Okay, so that are four superformances that are combined to one thing.
Gamers are super-forced individuals.
These are people who believe that they're able to change the world.
And the only problem is they believe that they're able to change virtual worlds and not the real world.
That's the problem I'm trying to solve.
There is an economist, Edward Castronova.
His work is brilliant. He seek the reason that people spend so many time and energy spend to online worlds.
And he says, "We've taken from nothing less than a real mass to a real mass to virtual world.
And he's an economist, he's an economist,
And he say, "Not like me, I'm a game designer; I'm a game designer; I'm excited.
But he says that this is logic, because gamers can be able to reach more precise in a world than in real life.
They can have stronger social relationships in games than in real life.
They're getting better feedback and feeling more reward in games than in real.
So he says that it is perfect logical that gamers are spending more time in virtual worlds than in the real world.
Now, I'm also going to agree that that is rational is right now.
But it's not a optimal situation.
We have to do the real world on a game on a game.
So I'm going to take my inspiration of something 2,500 years ago.
These are ancient death dobbles, OK?
Before we had cool controlers, we had shed.
And this suggests the first piece of tool, designed by people.
And if you know the old Greek historician Herodotus Herodotus Herodotus --
the inventors of the first game and why they invented it.
Herodotus says that games, particularly invented with dobbles, invented in the kingduring Lydia.
And apparently the hungry was so that the king of Lydia decent to do something.
People suffering. People are feet.
It was an extreme situation. They had to find an extreme solution.
And so, Herodottus, they figured out and put a state policy.
One day, the one day, eat everybody.
The next day, everybody's plays.
And they would be so catched in their play in their play because playing his so and, and stupid us in such a food productivity, that they wouldn't have the fact that they had no food.
The next day, they play games.
The day after it.
And then Herodotus they had this 18 years.
They survived a hungers by food through one day, and they play and play the next day.
Now, I think this is exactly how we use games today.
We use games to be able to understand the challenge of the real world.
We use them to understand them from everything whatever broken in the real world, everything that is not enjoyed to the real life, and we get what we needed from games.
But there is not to end.
This is very exciting.
After 18-year-old Herodotus the hunger.
So the king that she would play that she would play a last dobble.
They shared the entire kingdom.
They played one dobble, and the winner of that game was an epic adventure.
They'd leave Lydia, and looking for a new living place.
And not enough people kept across to survive the lives that were still there, and hopefully they could let the civilization somewhere else civilization somewhere else.
Now, this sounds -- right?
But recently showed DNA evidence evidence to the Etruse, which would lead to the Rome, as the old DNA as the old Lydian.
And so scientists have suggested that Herodotus."
And geologists found evidence of a climate change that almost 20 years.
So this guy could be true.
And it could be that they save their culture through games through games by play by playing game for 18 years, and then so much affect to be so much with game and so much with game by playing gamonds.
All right, we can do it.
We're playing Warcraft since 1994.
It was the first time strategy game of the World of Warcrafts series. That was 16 years ago.
They play with death dober for 18 years, we playing Warcrafts over 16 years.
I say we are ready for our own epic game.
Now, they let the population of the population for a new world.
So that's where I gamember, my 21 billion hours a week.
We're going to solve the hours of a day to go an hours a day, until we solve problems in the real world.
Now, I know what you do, "How will we solve those problems, "How will we solve it by gament?" Well, that's what I've been devoted to the last couple of years, to the Institute.
We have a banner in our building in Palo Alto, and it pressing our view of how to deal with the future.
We don't want to predict him.
We want to form.
We want to imagine the best possible.
And then we want to give people the force to make that outcome.
We want to imagine, "epic wins" and then people give the resources to story.
I'm going to show you a brief three games that I made an attempt to give people the resources to give people the resources to create their own epic winds.
Okay, this is World Without Oil.
We did this game in 2007.
This is an online game where you try to survive an oil.
And the short is fictional, but we don't know enough online content to make you believe that it is, and to show you real life as if we don't have any oil. And so if we don't have any oil, you tell the game you tell the game tell. So you tell you where you live.
And then we spend your real-time pictures and data features you what the exact price of oil, which is not available, how the food supposed to be affected influence, the transportation, or the schools.
And you have to figure out how to do your real life, and then we ask your real life as if this was true. And then we ask videos and pictures and pictures and pictures.
We're starting this game with 1,700 players in 2007.
And we followed them for the three years.
And I can tell you that this is a transformative experience.
Nobody wants to be lived only because it's good for the world or because it's good for the world or because we would have to do.
But if you understand them in an epic adventure, and she says, "We don't have an oil meas."
This is a great story and adventure.
Do yourself to see how you would survive.
Most players held their habits that they learned in this game.
So, for the next world-saving game, we decided to take higher higher problems higher problems than an oil.
We made a game called Superstruct struck to the Institute For the Toe.
The plot was that a supercomputer had calculated that people had only 23 years.
This supercomputer had the name Global Extinction Awareness Syvoice.
We asked people to get online, almost as a Jerry Bruckheimerry film.
You know, Jerry Bruckheimerry Bruckhes a dream.
You've got the astronaut, the scientists, and they need to save the world.
But in our play, we have five people on the threw team, everybody's team, everybody, and it's your job to find the future of energy, the future of food and the future of food and the future of food and the future of health and the future.
We had 8,000 people playing the game for eight weeks.
They're considered 500 enormous solutions that you can see if you can see if you look like Google "Superstruct."
And then finally, the final game, and we bring him out of the last game, and this game in collaboration with the World Bank Institution with the World Bank Institute.
If you play the game you'll be certified by the World Bank Institute Institute, as a Social Innovator, class of 2010.
And recognized with universities around Swart Africa, and we reach them to learn social innovation skills.
We have a comic story. We have a system with a system with levels in skills like local, knowledge, sustainability.
I would like to share all of you to share this play to share with kids, all over the world, especially in the world, especially in the development, that could get together; to rescue their own social entrepreneurs to save the world.
So I'm going to go now.
I want to ask a question.
What do you think is going to happen now?
We have all these amazing gamers, we have these games that are ideas of what we could do, but no one of them has been saved the real world.
Well, I hope you're going to be a couple with me, that gamers are a human aid source, that we can use to help the real world, that games are a powerful platform for change.
We have all this incredible super-forces, sale productivity, the possibility to avoid a closer and away, the ability to create an epic sense of branching and the desire to an epic meaning.
And I really hope that we can come together to play games to play games that make a difference on this planet.
And my hope is that you go with me, in making and play games and play games like this.
If I take forward to the next decades, I know two things, I know two things that we can be able to form every future that we can be able to play that we can play that we can play that we want.
So, I'm saying, let the world-changing playing games.
Thank you.
Since one time I've been interested in the placebo effect.
And that can be strange for a magician, unless you admit to the same meaning of this as me, that's something that is taking is something that is taken by somebody believed that it really gets really believed that it really gets in certain particular studies: the place: the place: the place: the place: the place: the place-effect.
Just because the person in issue thinks that the person in issue a crazy powerful tools or something.
For example, for example, for example, somewhere in below, it gets a measuable, it gets a measurable effect.
Something that is not, because of a person's perception.
To make sure that we understand each other, I want to begin with you a very simple basistrator.
And I'm going to show you how it works. This trick is certain since the 'five in any magic book for children.
I learned himself as little boy at at the years.
I'll do the trick, I'll do the trick I look at him.
And then I explain why I explained him.
This is what happens.
The whether you can see, my hand, that you can see.
And I'm going to do it this way in my dirtchests.
I'm going to flow.
And certainly certainly that there's nothing in my whether out of my wrist.
You see that there is no movement.
And that's how I couldn't get anything, there can't be anything in and come out of my mind.
The goal is very simple.
I'm going to open my hand, and hopefully, if it's good -- my magnetism is going to keep the cover.
And it is even support support, that I can shake it, that I could not shake on the ground.
Nothing is in my mind, no cheat. And you can look at everything,
Ta-day!
And this trick I learned to young young children who are interested in fact, because you can teach a lot of teaching.
Even while the trick of the trick.
Probably many of you knows.
This is what happens.
I love it in my hand.
I say that I say that I care of my pols to make sure that there's nothing in and comes out of my mind.
That's money.
And the reason I saw my pols is because there is the secret of the illusion.
At the moment my hands of your view away from your view of my wisdom of his original place to one of his original place to one in one that he's been so positioned.
"Mooi truck." Someone who had no youth of youth in the room is in the room.
This is what it's going to do.
And if I remember, my finger.
We can talk about why this is misleading is, why you don't you notice that there are only three fingers.
And that's because the brain information in a way that it doesn't match it, three counts, three count, but growing, it's growing, but growing.
But that's not really going to be about, right? And then I do my hand.
Of course, it does not depends on the magnetism, but by cheating the presence of my wisdom.
And if I close my hand.
And if I turned back again.
And I'm going to go away. You reach it out.
A beautiful trick that you can do for friends and family. Thank you.
Now, what does this have to do with the placebo effect?
About a year ago, I read a research.
I'm not a scientist, so I was this amazing.
And it turns out that if you allow a placebo in the shape of a white rounds that seems on an aspire that looks like an effect.
And often as the shape of the placebo changes, for example by making a smaller pill, that you have color, and then you have a letter on the case is measurable effective.
And despite that not both adaptments medicinal meaning -- it's sugar pills.
But a white pill is not as good as a blue.
What? What? I got really of suburbs.
But it turns out.
It turns out that capsules are more effective than whatever kind of tabletabletabletabletabletabletabletabletes.
One colored capsule, the yellow and read on the other side, is better than a white one.
Doserving a role.
A pill twice is not as well as three pillent, I can't remember the statistics -- I can't remember, sorry.
But the point is ...
They are doing a roll.
And the shape a rol.
And for the ultimate placebo effect, we need to go to the needle.
Yeah, yeah, right? A injection with some inert, a few centiliter of a kind of inputs in a patient, you know, a patient,
This is a huge powerful image in his mind.
It's many times stronger than the white pil.
We're going to see a graph graph, when we can see dias.
The point is, the white pill is not as good as the blue is not as good as the capsule, is not as good as the capsule, not as well as the needle.
And no one of all has a real medicinal propert.
Just you believe it in your body, and creates a stronger effect.
And I wanted to see if I could apply that idea in a trick.
I wanted to take something that is clearly a trick and really like that.
We know from that research that when you want to grab the needle.
This is a needle of almost 18 inches 18 inches.
I'm going to be a little bit of starise here.
This is really my meat. This is not a particular meat.
This is my skin. This is not Hollyword special effect.
I'm going to spend my skin boars and this needle by my arm, until I put it through my poor.
If you appreciate overall -- or if you are easily flaws -- I did this trick trick for a couple of friends and some people I don't know.
A woman was almost of her sticky.
So I imagine that if you're sure that if you are the next 30. You know what, I do the first side. You know what, I do the first heavy part of it.
You can see, but you can look if you want.
This is what happens.
I make a little bit of my poor, I make a little globe.
Sorry, man. Find you this abrid?
And then just through my skin a piece and then through the other side outside.
Now, in essentially we are in the same situation as the same situation.
A kind of thing.
But you can count my fingers, right?
I showed them here is two, three, four, five.
Yes,
I know people think if they see this.
They think, "He's certainly enough to spend themselves for a couple of minutes entertainment of his audience." Let me give you a look.
How does that look like this? Do good.
Yeah, I know it. The people back in the room, "Okay, I don't saw real." People in the other room now are going to be right now closer to the screen.
Let me show you this.
And that's really my skin. That's not Hollywood special effect.
That's my meat. I can turn that pin some way.
Sorry. When you get too much, don't look at that thing.
People in the room or people later in the room of the pictures of the images will say, "That looks like a beautiful special effect, but if it was really like -- there is a hole and one. If it really would be blood." Let me give you a hole and so forth for you.
Yes, there's it.
Normally, I would speak the needle.
I would clean my arm, and I would show you that there were no cover.
But in this context and with the idea of something that is takes and really make the needle, I just sit down the needle and I just walk out of the stage.
And the next days I'm going to show you more multiple again.
Hopefully you look at that. Thank you very much.
I know a lot of fishing in my life.
I love.
The first thing that looked more like a passionate affaire.
It was a beautiful fish, good structure, good structure, good structure, a exist-seller on the menu.
What a fish.
Beter now, it was moved fish to the highest standards of sustainability.
So you feel good at the sell.
I had a relationship with this beauty for a few months.
On a day, the head of the company and asked me or I wanted to speak on an eventual about the sustainability of the shore.
"Absolut," I said, "Absolutely saying.
Here was a company that was tried to solve that this incredible problem.
How do we love on our people?
In the last 50 years, we have the seas fishing the seas we have fish.
It's hard to resurgery.
90 percent of the big fish, that we love the tunes, that we love the sacks, the sacks, the sack, the sackages.
There is almost nothing about it.
So, as well or whatever it goes, aquaculture, fissue, fissue is part of our future.
Although there are a lot of arguments.
Vissue pollutants, most of them althans, they are inefficient, they are inefficient.
A big minds.
It has a food conversion of 15 to 15 against 15 against 1.
And that means that there was five-pound fish to get a pound.
Not very sustainable.
And it's not very well.
So here was finally a company that it tried to do.
I wanted to support.
The day for the event, I was the head PR of the company.
Let's call him Don it.
"Don," I said, "to get the facts, I said, "to get the facts that you don't know because of it so far in sea, that you are not sure that you are not surprising."
"That's right," he said, "We're so far out of the coast, that the waste of our fishing and not concentrated, and not concentrated.
And he feed said, "We're in fact, we are a world,
And that food conversiero? 2.5 against 1," he said, "Most of the business."
2.5 against 1, great.
"2.5 against what?
"Duuring protein," he said, he said, he said he say.
"Great."
And that night, I read and thought, what is in God, and I thought, which is a sustainability?
So the next day, I believe for the event, I called Don.
And I said, "Well, what are examples of sustainable proteines?"
And he said that he wouldn't do it.
So I've been on the line with a number of people in the company.
No one could give me an answer.
And until I finally got the main biologist.
Let's call him Don it.
And I said, "Well, I said, "What are a couple of sustainable protein indeed,
All right, he called a couple and some fishing meals and then he said chicken balls.
I said, "Kipballs?"
He said, "Yeah, skin, shood, shape, shissue, shissue and cause."
I said, "Which percentage of your food?"
You know, two percent.
"Well, that's about 30 percent," he said he say.
And I said, "Don, what's sustainable to chicken on chickens?"
There was a long pause, there was a long push and he said, "There is just too much chicken in the world."
My love for this fish.
No, not because I have a self.
I am that.
No, I love my love for this fish for this fish for this fish.
This second fish, that's a very different love story.
It's the romantic species, the kind of which is that you have more of your fish, you love more of the fish.
I ate him for the first time in a restaurant in southern Spain.
A friting journalist spoke already long about this fish.
She has us whether us or more engineer.
And he came up with a table, almost glorious, white color.
The book him had cooks.
Almost two times.
It's amazingly, he was covered it.
Who can a fish so well.
I not, but this guy.
Let's call it Migual.
Actually, his name is also Migual.
And no, he's not cooked and he's not cooking and he's not cooking.
Don't at least the way that you and I don't understand it.
He's a biologist in Veta La Palma.
That's a fish, that's a fishing in the southern of Spaint.
At the point of the Gaudalquivian river.
Until the '80s, the decades of Argentinians.
They're photographs on some behavior.
They were doing the country that through the country.
They built a complex channels and they pushed the water of the country,
It wasn't couple of them, not economical.
And ecologically, it was a disaster.
90 percent of the birds.
what, for these place, lots of birds are lots of birds.
And so in 1982, a Spanish environmental conscious company the country.
What did they they do?
They turned the waterflow the water flow.
They literally put the button the button.
Instead of pushing water out of it.
They put the channels under water.
They created a 1,100 hectare major fishing major fish, shrimp -- and at the same time, Migual and his business and his company the ecological destruction of the ecological destate.
The issue is great.
I mean, you've never seen something like this.
You look at the horizon who is infinitely far away and everywhere, you can see over, and this thicky moeras.
Not so long ago, I was there with Migule.
He's a great vent, three-quarter Charles Darwin and one quarter Crocodie.
Okay? There we are plumbering through the behavior, I remember, modder to my knee, and Migually gives a biologiells a biologiles.
Here he points to a rare Schouder.
Now he points to the mineral needs of the phytoplankton.
And here, here he looks like a group spatracy that is thinking about the Tanzanian giraft.
And it turns out that Migual part of his career in the Mikumi National Park in the Mikumi National Park in Africa.
I asked him how he has become a fish.
He said, "Do I don't know anything of fish.
I'm a relationships."
And then he talked so further about rare birds of birds and weird water plants.
Don't wrong, it was really fascinating, a kind of biological community.
It was great, but I was loved.
And my head silled with the cooked piece of the cooked pieces that I had the night.
So I said, "Migual him. I said, "Migual, how does it make your fish so well?"
He takes to the algae.
"I know it, the guy, the course, the phytoplankton, the relationships, it's great.
But what are the fish?
What is the food conversiero?"
And then he's going to go by telling that it is such a rich system that the fish.
The plant biomassa, the phytoplankton, the animal plankton, which is what the fish.
The system is so healthy, it's completely self.
There is no feer.
As a farmed from a farm who don't feed her animals.
Later that day, I drove about this terrain with Miguel and asked him, I said, "For a place that I said, "For a place that I have ever been, "how do you measure success?"
At that moment, it was a movie record a setwo.
And we went to the corner and saw the most amazing, thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of carpet to look at it.
"That's success," he said, he said he saying.
"Look at their bugs, roze.
They're at the part."
Fest? I was totally confusion.
And I said, "Miguel, they are not at the fish?"
"Yeah!
"We're talking about 20 percent of our fish and fish.
Last year, this area had 600,000 birds, over 250 different kinds of things.
It's now the biggest and one of the most important private birds of birds.
And I said, "Migual, is a bird population that it does not be the last what you want to do on a fish?"
He shake his head no.
He said, "We're extensive, not intensive, not intensive.
This is an ecological network.
The flamingos eating the shrimps.
The shrimps eating the phytoplankton.
So the rozero, the behind the system."
Okay, let's just go.
A currendering animals aren't feet, and a currently that his success measured of his hunters.
A fish, but also a bird of fish.
Oh, marries that flamingos, who couldn't be here at all.
They were reached in a village 250 kilometers, where the forest conditions are better to build net.
Every morning they fly flying 250 kilometers to the globe.
And every night, they fly 250 kilometers.
They're doing that because they can follow. They can follow.
No joke.
And I suggested a penguinmars, so I looked Migual.
And I said, "Migually fly 250 kilometers and then the evening 250 kilometer's 250 kilometer?
Do they do it?"
He looked like I just looked like I just a Whitney Houstone.
He said, "No. They're doing that for the food better."
I don't like the skin of my loving fishing fish. And I don't like fish. And I don't love fish.
I don't love it. I love it. I love it up.
It's that wrange, teachers, teachers.
I do rare.
But when I provide him in that restaurant in southern Spain that restaurant.
And he taken as if you took a hap out of the ocean.
And I said that to Miguel and he kned.
He said, "The skin works like a spus.
It's the final defense before something the body.
He's evolved to southern away."
And then he added "But our water has no water has no water has no souther."
Okay, OK. A fish.
One of them is success measured success of his predators.
And then I realized that when he said, a currendering that no display -- he made a major understatement statement, because the water that comes out of the Guadalquiver from the Guadalquier.
That's a river, that is a rivers that rivers reverse that rivers tend to take these days, chemical definitions, pesticide recently.
And as it takes his way through the system and away.
The system, the system is so healthy the water.
So not only a single that are animals that are not just a curring that his success measured to the health of his predators, but a current that literally is a water iversince stallation.
And not just for those fish, but also for you and me.
Because if the water away the water away.
A drugs in the ocean, I know it, but I take it, but I supposed to do, because this love, although romantic, although romantic, although romantic, is also teacher.
You can say that it's a recipe for the future of good food, whether we talk about birds or runders.
What we needed is a radial new agricultural concept, one in which the food actually take.
But for a lot of people is that a bit too radical.
We're not a realists, we are fine fine propers.
We are love.
We love farmers' markets.
We love little family companies.
We talk about local food.
We eat organic.
And if you suggests that these things are the things that the future of food that the future of food is always someone on and says, "Hell I love the world?
How do you get the world?"
Can I think it's hone?
I love that question.
No, not because we are producing more than enough calories to add the world.
One billion people leave today.
One billion -- that's more than ever before, because of the great inequality in distribution, not the amount of distribution, not the amount.
I don't like this question because it's determined by the logics of our food system of the last 50 years.
And from the front of refor, pesticides and chemicals, chemicals, chemicals to fish, and the entire agribusiness, and the entire agribusiness has asked, "If we add more people cheat.
That's the motivation.
It's the judge of justice.
It's the entrepreneur. It's the entrepreneur.
We ought to call it what it is, an entrepreneur, an entrepreneuring that quickly.
That's not an entrepreneur and it's not an agriculture.
We have been threatened now is threatened not by the device, but by decreating resources, not by the last combine combine and tractor and tractorinvention, but by pumps, not by pump, but by cleaning water, but by clean up by pumps, but by fishing through fishers, but by fishing the sea.
Do you feed the world?
Let's start with the question of how do ourselves?
Or better, how can we create conditions that every community can we feel conditions of itself?
To do that, don't look at the agribusiness model for the future.
It's old and it is old and it's astone.
And it was a strong of money, chemicals and machines, and machines, and it never really good to eat.
Let's look at the ecological model.
That is the model that confidence on two billion years.
Look at Migule, scales like Migual, sweaters that are not own global issues that are restoring instead of exhabiting instead of instead of just instead of just instead of just instead of just intensity that are not just percents, but in relations, because they are the experts in relationships.
And I'm very fairly very honest, they are a better block than I'm going to be.
You know, I think of the primary, because if that the future of food is good food than it is.
Thank you.
I grew up, on a constant diet.
Actually, I went to school, I went to school with the bus to school, a hour hour and back, every day.
And I was always absorbed by a book, a science fiction book, a science fiction book, that in minds me to other worlds, and that, in stories sense, my inevable curious curiodable curiosity.
And, you know, that curiosity is also ways in the fact that I wasn't in the fact that I wasn't in the forest, I won't collect in the forest and "monsters and collecture, insects and lunder the mickers, and they looked at the microscoop looked at the microscope.
You know, I was a real science.
But it all went to understand the world, the boundaries of the possible.
And my my love for science fiction, seemed to be mirirror in the world, because what happened in the world, because what happened, this was the end of the several oceans, we were the deep ocean -- we were the deep oceans, Jacques Cousteau came up with my fantastic specials, that we had no fantastic special world, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world.
This seemed to resonate with the whole science fiction element of it.
And I was an artist.
I could draw. I could draw. I could draw.
And because there were no video played game of CG films and all these images in the media landscape, I had to create these pictures in my head.
You know, that we had to do all that as a book and as a book and the basis of the description of the author something.
And my response, my respons' paintings, although world, already creatures, already creatures, already all that kind of things.
I was constantly constantly during mathematics behind my textbook.
That was the creativity that was the creativity.
And there was something interesting happened to the Jacques Cousteau programs, was very excited about the fact that there was an alien world, just here on Earth.
I probably wouldn't really go to an extraordinary world in a spaceshimself in a spaceship.
That seemed pretty unlikely.
But that was a world that I was able to actually go here on Earth, which was so rich and exotic as rich and exotic as I had imagined by the reading of that books.
So I decided to be done at 15 years.
And the only problem was that I live in a small village in Canada -- 600 miles of the nearest ocean.
But I won't let me.
I took my father showed my father until at Buffalo, New York, just about the ground.
And I got my certified, in a swimmble of a YMCA, in the middle of the winter, in Buffalo, New York.
And I saw the ocean, a real ocean, not until two years later, when we moved to California.
Since then, in the forces 40 years, I have about 3,000 hours under water under water, and 500 hours under the water.
And I have learned that deep sea surround, and even the indeep oceans, so wealthy are so wealthy life that it really our imagination.
The imaginative force of nature is so borne so front of our limity; human imaginations.
And until on this day, I have a big thing that I see at this time,
And my pass for the ocean for the ocean is just as strong if she was ever as strong.
But when I was a career a career was this filmmaker.
And that seemed the best way to do the neath that I had to combine stories I had to combine stories to my neath to create pictures.
And as a child, I was always working with the drawings of comic books, etc.
Films are making the way of images and stories. And that seemed together.
And of course, the stories, the stories that I choos: "Terminator," "Terminator," "Terminator," "Aliens," and "The Abyss."
And with "The Abyss," I brought my love for underwater and takes together with films.
You know, the two passions combine combining.
Something was interesting from "The Abyss," which is that to resolve a specific story-engineering problem in that film, the create of a kind of fluence, which we create a kind of fluence, that we generated computer generated animation, CG, omvers' animations,
And this resulted in the first soft surface" character, CG animation, that had ever put in a film.
And even despite that the film never brought money, it was hardly break break-face of something that was very extraordinary of something extraordinary, that was the public, the global public, the global magic magic.
You know, it's Arthur Clarke: Arthur Clarks, that any enough advanced technology.
They saw a magical.
And I was very excited about that.
And I thought, "Wow, this is something that needs to be surrounded in the filmber."
So, with "terminator 2," which was my second film, which was my second film --
World with ILM, we created, we created the liquid metal metal metal metals of that film. And the success of it would work.
And that did it. And we created again.
And we had the same result with the audience.
We're going to deserve a little more money on that film.
So, to pull a line between those two points of experience, this is a whole new world, a whole new world, a whole new world of creativity for philenomenon.
So I started a company with Stan Winston, my good friend Stan Winston, who was the make-up make-up and creature: Digital Domain that time, and it was called Domain.
And the concept of the company was that we would make a jump across the analog processes of optical printers and we would get directly.
And we did that we actually didness and gave us a competition.
But we found ourselves behind ourselves, in the middle years in the creature, and character design, which we had the company we originated the company that we had the business of business.
So I wrote this piece called "Avatar," "Avatar," which was absolutely to explain absolutely the front of visual effects, of CG, with realistic human emotional characters would all in CG. And the world would all in CG, and the world would all in CG, and the world in CGenerges. And the world in CGenerges.
And I was told by the people in my company, that we wouldn't be able to do this.
So I put it into the refrigers, and I made that other film about a big ship that sentence.
I sold it to the studio as "Romeo and Juliet."
It's an epic romantic film.
And what I wanted to do, I wanted to go to the real walk of the "Titanic."
And that's why I made the film.
And that's the truth.
But I convinced them, I said, "We're going to go to the walk moving. We're going to really film.
We will use it in the opening of the film.
It will be very important. It's going to be a great marketing up.
A I convinced them an expedition.
And it sounds the theme of your imaginative imagination that creates a reality.
Because we actually created a reality that I found a reality where I found six months later in a Russian undersea -- two and a half deep in the northern Atlantic ocean, looking at the northern Atlantic.
And I was completely far.
And the regular a lot of prepartment, we had to develop cameras, and all kinds of things.
But it took me to how many these dive divine dive dive divids.
You know, you know, there was very technical and the incredible enormous planning.
You get in this dark in this dark environment in this dark environment where there is no hope to save if you can't get back.
And I thought, "Wow, it looks like a science fiction film.
This is very cool.
And so, I had the taken of exploring the deep ocean.
Of course, the curiosity, the science component of it.
And it was everything. It was eventure. It was a curiosity. It was imaginative, and it was an experience that Hollywood me.
Because, you know, I could imagine, and I could imagine, and we could be able to create a visual effect." But I couldn't imagined what I saw out of that wind.
And as we did some of our next expeditions I saw creatures at hydrothermal sources and sometimes things that I had never seen before, somebody had never seen before, somebody had ever seen before, who were really not described by the science of science at the moment that we saw and they described.
And so I had to come up with this.
And so I made a weird decision.
After the success of "Titanic," I said, "OK, I said, "OK, I'm paying my job as Hollywood filmmaker, and I'm going to be a while,
And so we started planning these expeditions.
And we eventually went to the Bismark, and explored it with robotic vehicles.
We went back to the write of the Titanic.
And we took a little bottom that we had created with that glass glassell.
And the idea was to go to inside and an interior -- research of that ship, which never done before.
No one had ever looked in the wood, they didn't have the resources to do it, so we developed technology to do it.
So, here I am now at the Titanic, at the Titanic, and look at the submarines that seems so much like this, which seems so much like this, where I knew that was playing that the band had been playing that the band
And I serve a little robotic vehicle by the way,
And when I say that I consciousness, but my consciousness is in the vehicle I felt physically attempt of the Titanic.
And it was the most surreal kind of dejavu-experience that I ever had, because I had ever -- because I was going to have already what would be there for the vehicles of the vehicles of the vehicles of the vehicles were actually showing the film.
And the set was an exactly replica on the blueprints of the ship.
So the absolutely markable experience.
And it did me realize that the telepresence that the telepresence that you can actually have this kind of robotic avatars in the vehicle of robotic avatars in the vehicles of exist.
It was really pretty deep.
And probably a little bit of a look at what's going to happen, what decauses decades to be available to be available for exploration or another, in many species of post-human future, which I can imagine.
So, these expeditions and really beginning and really starting to value what was there, such as the deep ocean resources where we had this amazing amazing animals.
They're practical extraordinary creatures on Earth.
They live in a environmental of chemosynthesis.
They don't live in a sunlight based system like we do that.
And so you can see animals that live next 500 degrees Celcius heat plumes.
You could think that they can be able to exist.
And at the same time, I was also again a very interested in space science, again space science, again, the science, again, the science fiction influence as a child.
And I got involved in the space community, very engaged in NASA, part of NASA, participants at the NASA advies: actual space missions, I went to Russia, I went to Russia biomedic biomedic protocols and all that kind of things, to actually work with our 3D systems.
And this was fascinating.
But what the eventual result that I had space scientists to the depth.
And they take access so that they had access to astrobiologists, planetetary scientists, people who were interested in that extreme environmend to the sources and taking them to the sources and take them and samples and so forth.
So, here we were documentary films to do but also create science to documentary films of doing it, and actually actually engineering space science.
I had made the circle around from the science fiction fan, you know, as a child, you know, as a child and all do this.
And you know, during this journey.
I learned a lot about science. But I also learned a lot about leadership.
Now you think that would have to be a leader, a leader of leader, captain of the ship and that kind of things.
I didn't really learn about leadership until I did expeditions.
Because I had to say at a certain time, "What do I do this?
Why do I do this? What do I know about it?"
We deserve no money with these disappear.
They're hardly break-one. There is no fame with.
People think I'm going to be away between "Titanic" and "Avatar" and "Avatar" and I turned out to the beach.
I made all these films, all these films, all these documentary for a very limited audience.
No far, no glory, no money. Where are you mean?
You do it for the work itself, for the challenge, and the ocean is the most challenging environment, for the exploration of discovery, and for that strange band that considered as a small group of people a small group of people.
Because we did all these things with 10-10-12 people working for year.
Sometimes. Sometimes for 2-3 months.
And by that band, you realize that the most important thing is that you have a task thing that you have a task for you, that you can't explain someone else, that you can't explain someone else.
When you get back to your back, and you say, "We had to do this, and you say, "We had to do this and the demp, and the demp, all the technology of it and the hardness, the human performance aspects of working on sea, you can't explain people. It's that thing you can't explain people. It's that thing is that you might have something like that. It's that thing, and they're never able to know that they could never explain it.
It creates a band, creates a band creates a respect.
So when I came back to make my next film, and my next film, which "Avatar," I tried that same principle of leadership, which is that your team and you make your team respect.
And that changed the dynamic.
So, I was against a little team, in a little team, in the map terrain, "Avatar, "Avatar," and new technology that wasn't existed before.
Enorm exciting.
Enorm challenged.
And we were a family, for a family of a four and a half years.
And it changed how I make films.
So, people gave comment on how you saying, the ocean organisms came back and put them on the planet and put them on the planet.
For me, it was a fundamental way of things, the process itself, the process itself, which changed.
So, what can we synthesis?
You know, what are the learned less?
Well, I think is a curiosity.
It's the powerful thing you do.
Imagination is a force that can manifest a reality.
And the respect of your team is more important than all the team in the world.
There are young filmmakers that come to me and say, "Give me some advice to do."
And I say, "Don't restraints.
Other people are going to do that for yourself.
And take risk."
NASA has said this told where she said, "Mislucking is not an option."
But crize, a must be an option in arts and discovery, because it is a judge in the deep.
And not a single innovation that innovation required without risk.
You've got to be will.
And that is the thought I would like to leave you, that in whatever you do, that in whatever you do, but fear. Thank you.
If I give you a lot of idea, you know, one big idea of the data that we use of the data that we use is bigger than the sharing of the parts.
Instead of across the information, I want to think about how we can use information to figure out how to use information and trends that would keep invisible.
This is a typical mortality of degree disease.
The tool I use here is an experiment.
It's called Pivot. With Pivot, I can filter filtering on one certain death, for example.
I see an immediately another pattern.
That's because here in the middle of people are the most active, and there's the vulners.
We can step outside, and we can step the data reorganized species.
We're seeing that heart diseases and cancer.
If we go and moves, for example, 40 years, for 40 years or young -- we see that includes are the biggest cause of care.
If you dive in deeper there is that especially for males.
You can see what I mean: like this way to see information looks like swimming in a living infographic.
If we can do this with rude data, why, why, why, why, why,
And what we have here is the front page of every number of Sports Illustrated that ever has ever been made.
Everything is here. It all state here. It's all about it.
You can go to your room, and you can go to your room.
With Pivot you can zoom in a decade.
You can zoom in a certain year.
You can go to a particular number.
I look at this thing. I see the athletes that are appear in this number, the sports.
I'm fan from Lance Armstrong, so forward, so I click up, and that gives me all the numbers Lance Armstrong.
If I just want to look at this, I think, "Why don't don't all the wheels.
I do a step back, and I do a step back,
Now I see Greg Lemond.
You can see that if you love information through information, small, smaller and well, you don't see, you don't see, then you see, don't look like that.
You do something that is a little different.
The sense of there and we think that it changes how you can use information.
So I want to go through it a little bit.
Here's every page of Wikipedia of Wikipedia and rested to a small together.
And the consists of a small synopsis and an icoonth to give the particular subject.
I just show only the top 500 popular Wikipedias.
But even in this limited, we can do a lot.
We're getting immediately an idea of the subjects that are the popular on Wikipedia.
I'm going to go beyond and government.
Now I have government, I see that the Wikipedia-categories that following up there, Time magazine magazine magazine magazine.
This is very important, because this insight in the apart Wikipedia:
You can only get it through a step back and look at them all and look at them all too look at it.
And if I can look at one of these collabors I can deeper to the deeper Time magazine Person of the year.
And a look at all these people teaches me that the majority comes out of the politics.
Some of the natural sciences.
A smaller number of the business world.
There is my base.
One comes out of the music world.
What's interesting is that Bono also a TED Prize-wine.
So we can jump to all the TED Prize winners.
So we did for the first time by the web as though it is really a web, not from page page to page page at a higher abstractivity.
I want to show you one other thing that you might astone.
I'm going to show the website of the New York Times.
Pivot, this application -- I don't want to call it browser, it's actually not a browser, but you can see webpages -- we bring this major technology to every web page.
I'm going to leave a step back and jump back in a specific section.
The reason that this is important, is that I can just look at webpage so I can look at my whole brow-se-history in the same way.
I can see depth in what I've done in certain perios.
Here's the status of the demo that I've just been given --
And I can play things that I'm looking at earlier today.
And if I put a step back, I can look at my historics maybe my historic.
Here I did a little nepotistic research, and here Labs Pive Labs Pivot.
From there, I can take a deeper on the page of the page and again.
It's one metaphor that phors again, and every time it makes it very bigger than the parts of the data.
And, in our world, in our world, we see that?
We're talking about the liquid of information.
We're talking about.
And if we were able to put that on his heads, and the web on the web on the web on the next thing to the next one, we can go from one thing to go from many things to many things to go from many things to many things, and the patterns that would be hidden.
And if we can, we are not fast in that, we may be able to really include information.
Instead of only with information, we can be able to be knowledge.
If we have knowledge.
I thank you very much.
Everybody speaks today about happiness.
I have someone the number of books that the last five years that the last five years with "happiness in the title and he has given up after about 40, and there were a lot more.
There is a lot of importance for happiness, in researchers.
There is a lot of happiness.
Everybody wants to make people happier.
But despite that mass that mass there are different cognitive values that make it so what impossible to think about happiness.
And I'm going to talk today about that cognitive values.
This is true for ordinary people who think about their own happiness, and it researchers that thinking about happiness, because it turns looks like all the other.
The first fall, the first fall.
It turns out that the word happiness just not useful word happiness.
I think that there is one certain meaning that we might be able to consider it, but everything to considerate and we will have to give the more complicated vision of what's going to have the more complicated vision of whatever.
The second choil is the confusion between experience and memory and memory that is the difference between happy in your life and his happy in your life.
And that are two totally different things that are going to be thrown in the concept "happines."
And the third choil is the illusion of focus and the unhappy fact that we can't think about a conditions that impact on our well.
I mean, this is really a cognitive value.
There is not a single way to get this.
Now, I would like to start with an example of someone who was a question of someone who was a question and answers a story.
And this was the story.
He said he said that he had a symphony symphony and it was absolutely fantastic music and at the end of the record of the record of the record sound.
And then he said that this was really completely motioned that this whole experience.
But that's not right.
It had reminded the reminds.
He had the experience.
He had fantastic music music music.
Those were not worth because he was reminded with a remember, the remember, and the remember, and the remind was already what he had had already.
And what this is that we could see is that we could see ourselves and others as two persons.
There is a experience I think, that lives in the hot and knows, which is able to be able to re-past, but that has only been in order just it.
The doctor focused to our experience I -- you know, if the doctor, "Do it's pain if I asked you?"
And then there is the remembering I remembering is that the state and the story of our lives and the story of our lives and that is the person to the doctor, and that is the person who the doctor.
or "How was you travel to Albania.
Those are two very different things, and the experience I remembering and the confusion between both is part of the mazing of the understanding of the understanding happiness.
I remember the storyteller.
And that is really starting with a fundamental reminds of our reminds -- it starts immediately starts -- it starts immediate.
We're not just telling stories when we address stories.
Our memory tells us stories, that wants to say, what we can be able to say.
And let me beginning.
This is an old research.
Those are real patients that a painful ingreet.
I spent you the details. This is not painfully more, but it was painful when this research walked in the '90s.
And they had to do every 60 seconds of their pain every 60 seconds
And these are two patients.
These are their review.
And there is being asked "Who of them had the most most pain.
And that's a very easy question.
It's clearly that patient spatient, By had had more pain
His colonoscopy has longer longer, and for every minute pain that patient patient has patient, A patient, and more.
But here is another question: How many patients think these patients that they have?
And what a surprising: The surprise is that patient, A much worse remind to the colonoscopy has patient.
The stories of the colonoscopies of the colonoscopies because a very important part of the story -- and no one of these stories are very inspirings -- but one of them is very inspirings -- but one of them is certain worse than the other.
And the worse story is the story in which the pain the end.
That's a quality story.
How do we know that? Because we asked these people after their colonoscopy, and much later, well, "How was the entire allowed to each other?"
and it was much worse for B, in their remind.
Well, this is a conflict of conflict between the experience and reminds.
From the point of view of the experience I got B clear.
Well, what you could do with patient A, and we actually have clinical trial clinical trials, and that's happened, and it was happened, and it works, you would be the colonoscopy of patient.
And that causes the patient, but not much less than before, but not much less than before.
And if you love that a few minutes you have it for the experience I worse of patient, and you remember, and you remember it for patient, and you remember patient's have a much better story about his experience.
What is a story?
And that is true for the stories that the memory that liver, and it's also true for the stories that we remember.
What a story is determines are changes, important moments and end.
Eindes are very, very important and in this case, the end was the end.
Well, the experience I live his life.
It has moments of experience, one after the other.
And you say, what happens with this moments?
And the answer is really simple.
They're always lost. They're lost.
I mean, most of the time.
That means, you know, in a life you have about 600 million it.
In a month there are about 600,000.
Most of them.
Most of them is not spend totally no attention by remind.
And yet you get the impressure that they should have to be from text, which is that what happens in this experience moments of this experience moments of life.
It's the end solids that we use on Earth.
And how you use that seems to be relevant to be relevant to remind that it doesn't remember the story.
So we have the remembering and the experience I and that are really different.
The biggest difference between both is in the end.
From the point of view of the experience I have a vachance, and is the second week as the first week as the first one of two weeks, two weeks, two weeks as good as well.
It's not working for the reminds.
For the remembering is a two weeks of two weeks, there are better than the vacation of one week because there's no new reminds.
You don't have the story.
And in that way is actually the critical variable that a remembering I did.
Time has very few impact on this story.
It remembering I do remembering and stories.
It's the person that decisions, if you have a patient, if you have a patient, you know, two colonoscopies have had a patient, two colonoscopies and have to decide which he will sell with the least remember, and that is the surgeon.
I have no voice in this choice.
We don't choose between experiences.
We choose between remembers of experience. And even if we don't think about the future, we don't think of our future as we don't think of our future as experiences.
We think about our future as a geanticipeated memories.
And you can actually look at this point, as a dictor of remember, and you can remember it remember, and you can remember the experiencing I think as a lot of experiencing experiencing from the experiencing of the experiencing that if we go to the experience that if we go to the service.
And that's pretty hard to responsibilities.
I mean, how often do we use our remember?
That's one of the explanations that are given for the dominance of the dominance.
And when I think about that, I think about a vachance that we had a couple of years ago in Antarctica few years ago, and I think about it.
And I probably have my remembers to that vacation of three weeks for about 25 minutes.
Now, if I had been taken the map of 600 pictures in the 600 pictures, then I would have an hour.
So these are three weeks, and that's almost other hour.
There seems to be a discrepance.
Now, maybe I'm a little extreme -- you know, in the limited hunger that I have reminded to use remind rememberations, but even if you do that is the hammaking question: why do we remind so much to the importance that we have to experience?
So I want you to think about a mind experiment.
Imaggine your next vacation is that at the end of the vacation of the photographs will be destroy and you get a pill, and you get a pil that you won't remind anymore.
Would you choose the same vachance? And if you choose? And if you choose a conflict between you.
and you have to think about how to solve that conflict.
That is not that obvious because if you think that if you think in terms of time you get one particular answer.
And if you think in terms of reminds.
Why we choose the field that we choose choose is a question that confront us with a choice.
Now, the two icks to two notions of happiness.
There are really two shapes of happiness that we can apply -- one per me.
So you can ask, how happy is the experience?
And then you would you say, "How happy are the moments in life of the experience?
And they're all happiness -- the happiness of moments is a rather complicated process.
What are the emotions that can be measure?
And by the way, we're able to get a pretty good idea of getting a pretty good idea of the happiness of the happiness I got him.
If you ask to the happiness of remembering is that a totally different thing.
This is not about happily someone lives.
It's about how peaces or following the person is like that thinking about her life.
By differently, concept.
Everybody who concepts these concepts to one hope a little bit of the study of the study, and I hear a group of students that have been making a group of students that have been made of the study of the study of happiness in this way.
And the distinction between the happiness and the enough I remember is reminded and the enough I'm recent to measure the two recently, to measure the two definitely measured, the Gallup doing a global peile in which has been a global peace of what they think about their lives and their their experiences.
And there are more inspent in that sense.
So the youngest years, we begin to be happiness in the happiness of the two ike.
And the main lesson that we have learned from each other.
You can know how peace someone with his life, and you really learn about how happy, and you really learn about how happiness.
Just to give you an idea of the correlation, the correlation, the correlation is about 0.5.
That means that if you should meet someone, and you'd say that his father, how much would you know about his leng?
You would know something about his length, but there's a lot of uncertainty.
And so much uncertainty you'd have if I told you that somebody gives a good of 10, you have a lot of 10, you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they're about their experience.
So the correlation is weak.
We know something about what the peace of the experience.
We know that money is very important.
We know that happiness especially means that we are totally with people that we had to do with people that we had to do with people that we had to do with people that we had to do with people that we were possible.
There are other enough, but this weeks.
So if you want to maximize the happiness of the two causes that you do very different things.
And the conclusion of what I've said here is that we wouldn't describe happiness as a substitute.
It's a completely different concept.
And then very quickly -- another reason we can't think of happiness about happiness is that we can't think of happiness on the same things if we think about life and if we think about life and if we think about life.
So if you ask the simple question of how happy people in California will not get the right answer.
If you ask that question, you think that people have to be happier in California as you live in California,
And what happens is if you think about life in California, you think about the contrast between California, and other places and other places and the contrast of climate.
And it turns out that the climate is not so important for the experiencing I decided I decided that decided how happy people are.
But because it thinks that I think it can turn it out that you -- that some people go -- that some people to California.
And it's kind of interesting to go after what is going to happen with people who are moving to California, in the hope happier.
Well, their experience won't be happier.
You know.
But one thing happens to be happier, they think they're happier, because if they think about it will be reminded how terrible it was reminded how terrible it was back in Ohio.
And they're going to think that they have the right decision.
It's very difficult to think about well, and I hope that I hope I hope that I have a idea of how possible.
Thank you.
Chris Anderson: Thank you. I have a question for you.
Thank you very much.
When we told a couple of weeks ago, you told me that there was a very interesting in that Gallup.
Can you share this with our short a couple of minutes?
Daniel Kahneman: I think the most interesting result of the Gallup-peile from the Gallup-peile is that we didn't expect absolutely --
It has to do with the happiness of it.
If we look at how feelings differences --
It turns out that under the income from 60,000 dollars a year, for Americans, and then it goes over a whole big group of Americans, so what 600,000, a big representation, with an income under the 600,000 dollars a year.
CA: 60,000 DK: 60,000 dollars a year, then people are unfortunately, and they'll be unfortunately well.
And then we see a completely flake.
I mean, I mean, I've seen such such lines.
It's obviously, what happens is that money is that money not bringing happiness, but that a lack of money and we can be able to measure that telling with big, great precision.
For the other I remember the remember, you get a very different story.
The more money you deservices you know.
That's not true for emotions.
CA: But Danny, the entire American freedom, and the pursuit of happiness.
And if people who are taking results like though it looks like to put it on his heading what we believe about, you know, fiscal policy and so on.
Is there a chance that politicians that the country in the general result in the general result would take severe and public policy?
DK: You know, I think that there's recognition of the role of happiness.
And the recognition will slow out in the United States, that does not mean but in the United Kings -- but in the U.K.
People recognize that they should think about happiness if they think about public policy.
It will take a time and people are going to debate about the question whether they want to study whether they want to study or the evaluation of life so we're going to have that debate.
And how we have increasing happiness is different dependently dependent on how you think about the remember I whether you think about the experience.
This is going to influences in the next years, I think,
In the United States are done in the United States, to measure the population.
And I think that's going to be a year or 20, part of the national statistics.
CA: Well, it seems to me that this subject is the interesting policy to follow or should be the next few years.
Very lots of thank your invention of the nehavioral economics.
Thank you, Danny Kahneman.
I'm going to talk about energy and climate.
And it may seems a little surprising because my full-time work in the foundation is about vaccines, the things that we have to invention and supply to help the poorest two billion people.
But energy and climate is extremely important for these people, in fact, more important than to this planet.
The climate of climate so that their climates are not going to grow.
There will be too much rain fall, or too much raint.
Things are going to change so their vulnerable environment,
And that leads to hungry. It leads to uncertainty.
So the climate change.
The price of energy is extremely important for them.
In fact, if you could pick up only one thing to make cheaper, to make the poverty.
The energy price is silence.
Really advanced civilization is based on the advances in energy.
The coal-carbon revolution, and the industrial revolution, and even in the 20th century, there was a very quickly-century for electricity, and so many of electricity, and so many of things.
And we have a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world.
So now we make the cheaper -- and let's make it two times so cheap -- then there is a new limitation, and that has to do with CO2.
CO2 leads to be warming the planet, and the equation of CO2 is actually a very simple thing.
And if you count: the CO2 that is being extincludes that leads to a temperature, and that temperature, and the temperature.
The effects of the impact again, maybe the indirect effects, that the natural ecosystems can't adapted to these rapid changes, and so you get ecosystems that instories.
Now, the exact amount of how you get a particular increasingly increasingly from CO2 to which temperatures are going to be going to go and where the positive back, which is only uncertainty, but not very much.
And there is certainly uncertainty about how much the consequences, but they will be very seriously.
I have asked this often to top-scientists.
we really have to come up to zero?
Can we don't take half or a quarter?
And the answer is that, until we get in the neighborhood, the temperature.
So that's a big challenge.
For example, for example, a four feet high-four bridge of 3.6 meters are trying to get under it.
This is something that to zero.
Now, we have a lot of CO2 years.
For every American is about 20 ton.
For people in poor countries it's less than one ton.
It's a average of about five tons for everyone on the planet.
And we needed to change that.
It's constantly constantly up.
One of the economic changes have a little bit of a rap, so we need to increase from a rapid of a pace at name of a display to zero.
This equation has four factors.
A little multiply.
So, you have something to the left side, CO2, that you want to bring to zero. And that is based on the number of people, the average use of service, the average use of service, and the average.
So, let's see this piece for piece and see how we can get this to zero.
And probably one of these values in the neighborhood.
That's a high school mathematics, but let's take a look.
First of all, we have the population.
Now, the world today, 6.8 billion people.
That's the rise to about nine billion.
So, if we really do it with new vaccins, healthcare, healthcare, reproductive health care, then we could reduce that measures measures, 10 or 15 percent, but we see a stye of about 13.
The second factor is the services that we use.
This contains everything, the food that we eat, small, clady, warming.
These are very good things, and the away from these services of services to almost everyone on the planet.
So it's great as this number.
In the rich world, perhaps the top one billion, we can probably inflect and the consuming, but year is going to take this number, this number, the average, and so on the average, the average.
We have a very simple service.
Have your body in your home to read your home to read your homework -- and they don't go out to outside and read their homework under the lunder the country,
So, efficiency, E, the energy for every service.
Finally, we have good news.
We don't have something that is not stying.
And Via diverse inventions and new ways of enlightention, through other ways of building, by other ways of building.
There are lots of services where you need to reduce the energy that can be lot.
Some individual services, even with 90 percent.
There are other services, like how we are producing whether or how we do with airverage that space for improvement is much smaller.
And so, if we are optimistic, we can reduce a factor three to them, a factor.
But for these first factors we are 26 billion year, on his best, 13 billion -- 13 billion and that's just not enough.
So let's look at this fourth factor -- this will be a certain -- and that's the CO2 per energy.
So the question is, can you get that to zer?
And if you stook, no.
And if you stook, no.
Frich, every way that we are producing the day, electricity, except the emerging sustainable energy and nuclear energy and nuclear energy, produces CO2.
And what we need to do in global scale, is creating a new system.
So we need energy wonders.
So, if I wonder in the term, I don't have something that is impossible.
The microprocessor is an amazor is a wonder.
The Internet and the services are a wonder.
So, the people here have contributed to create many wonders.
Normaliter we have no deadline, when you have to have a particular date.
Moest, you just wait up, and sometimes, sometimes.
This is a lot that we have to actually pull speed on full speed and a wound, and a woundly agenda.
Now I thought, how can I really really, do this?
Is there a kind of natural illustration, a demonstration, a demonstration that talks to people to the imagination.
I was thinking back to a year ago, when I remember, and somehow I found that fun.
And it was really involved in the idea that there are people who live with mosquitos.
So, with energy, this was the only thing I could think about it.
I decided that I decided to let like my contributed to the environmental here this year.
So here we have some natural resources.
My told that they are not particularly won't let this pot.
So, there are all kinds of gimmick-like solutions like this, but they don't really make anything.
We need solutions -- a or multiple on an incredible scale and an incredible scale and a incredible scale, although people in many directions, although people in many directions, I find only five that can supply a creature.
And then I'm going to let time, geothermic energy, nuclear energy, biobrands out there.
And maybe something to be able to wear and if they expect it to be better than I expect, but my main point here is that we have to work on every one of these five and we can't make any one of these five and we can't make it be so far.
Let's look at the fossil fuels, or burning fuels, or burning coal or burning coal or burn.
And what you have to do, but that's not simple, but that's not.
You've got to take all the CO2, under drugs, under pressure and make it happiness, and make it keeps there.
Now there are a couple of the level of 60 to 80 percent to 80 percent -- but it will get to 100, but it will be very difficult to be very difficult for all that CO2 is also very difficult of this.
Who supposed to know?
Who will be standing for something that is literally billions of miles bigger than whatever affall you can think in terms of nuclear or other things?
This is an enormous volume.
So it's hard.
The next one is nuclear energy.
Even three major problems.
The costs, with name in strong countries, his high.
The issue of the safety of safety that nothing can go wrong, while you have this human operators, that the split can't be use.
And what do you do with the way?
And, although it's not so much, there are a lot about it.
People have to talk about it.
So three very difficult problems that may be solvable, and needs to be working on it.
The last three of the last three of the five, I grow up.
These are some people often call the renewable sources.
And that -- although it's a great thing that they don't required -- yet a couple of call.
One is that the density of the energy of the energy through these technologies through these technologies are both of an electricity.
And this is energes, you have it talks about many square kilometers, thousands of miles, thousands of miles more space than you need for a normal energy.
And, you know, these intermitting sources.
The sun isn't suns the whole days, and not just the sun every day, not alway.
And so, if you're depending on these resources of sources that periods that periods that periods they are not available.
So, we have great cost challenges here.
We have transport challenges.
For example, this energy source outside your country, you know, you don't need the technology, but you need not just the technology, but you have to do with the risk.
And, finishing the problem.
And to make that visibled that I looked at all kinds of battery battery that makes it made cars, for phones, for phons, for phones, for phones, for all and compared that the amount of electric energy that the world, and what I felt is that all the battery that we can beat less than 10 minutes of all energy.
So we need a big breakthrough, something that a factor is a hundred better than the approach that we have now.
It's not impossible, but it's not easy.
And this is important, if you try to get that incredibly higher than 20 to 30 percent of what you use.
If you calculate for 100percent of it.
Now, how are we going to find advance: what is the right approach.
Is it a Manhattan project? How can we achieve this?
Well, we need a lot of companies that work, hundred.
In each of these five pads, at least hundred people.
And many of them, many of you like that. That's good. That's good.
And, I think that here in the TED group, we have a lot of people who took this already.
Bill Gross has different companies, which has a named eSolar that great thermal thermical solar technologies.
Vinod Khosla invests in 10 companies companies that are doing things and interesting possibilities, and I'm trying to support that.
Nathan Myhrvold and I use a company that, maybe surprisingly, nuclear energy.
There are a couple innovation in nuclear energy, modules, and liquid there.
And there is no innovation in this industry in this industry, so it's not so strange that there are good ideas.
The idea of Terrapower is that, instead of just a small part uranium, which is one percent, which U-235, we decided to use the 999.
A little strange idea.
Here has ever been talking about this, but they could never simulate whether it's going to work.
But through the comst of supercomputers can right now.
With the right materials will probably work.
And because you use the 999 percent are reducing the cost enormously.
You use it -- you can use it as a fuel of burning all the survival reactors.
So instead of care, supply that new fuel of burning care, which is great!
It uses this uranium duranium response. It looks like a map.
You can see in this animation, often it becomes an "freactor reactor reactor.
For the fuel of the burning solution.
I have a picture of a place in Kentucky.
This is core nuclear waste is the 99 percent, where the 10.
So it's called uranium.
That's enough for hundreds of years.
And by a cheap way seawater, you get enough, you get enough, you get enough burning for the whole planet.
So, there's a lot of challenges for the future, but it's an example of the many hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of ideas that we need to go forward.
So let's think how do we measured ourselves?
How has to us report out of it.
Let's see what we need to come out, and then we go to the way.
For 2050, speaking many people about 80 percent reduction.
And it's really important to get that.
And that 20 percent will be used by poor countries, a part of agriculture.
Hopefully we have clean fall and cement.
So, to get those 80 percent have to developed countries, including countries like China, their electricity production -- their electricity.
And the other story: Passes are we choose technology in all developed technology in all developed countries, and we are introduce?
That's super important.
That's a major measure for that report.
So, how does it have to report for 202020.
Well, it must be following two follow.
We have to reduce that efficiency improvement.
And the less we did, the less we get the CO2 becomes the CO2 becomes the temperature.
But in some ways, the decades, the decades that we pulled by doing things that are not going to bring us to the major less, only event, or maybe even less important than the other, that's the piece of innovation on this brakes.
And this speeding, we have to speed, and we can measure that measured in terms of business, regular things that changed.
Here's a lot of beautiful books about it.
The book of Al Gore, "Our Keuic," and the book of David McKay book, "Duurzame Energy is under the hot air."
They're really good and they reward a cader that this can be decided that this can be decision, because we have to get a widely run.
And there is a lot to come together.
So this is a wish.
It's a very concrete wise that we invented these technology.
If you give me one wish for the next 50 years, I could choose who was president, I could be able to choose a vaccine, something that I could like something that was invented with the cost, without half of the cost CO2, this is the wish I could choose the wish.
This is the one with the largest impact.
And if we don't get these wishs between the people who think of the people who think on short short run, between the U.S. and China, between poor and China, between poor and China, between poor and particular.
So, what do we need to do?
What do I ask you?
We have to go for more financiation of research.
If countries come together in places like Copenhas, they don't just talk about the CO2.
They need to speak this innovation agency, and you supposed to this innovative approach to this innovative approach to this innovative approach to this innovative approach.
We've got market, CO2-taxes, CO2-tax taxes and handle, something that the costs.
We need to extract the message.
This dialogue has to be understanding and understanding of the steps that takes the government.
This is an important wish, but I think we can reach it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Chris Anderson: Thank you.
Thanks. Now I understand more about Terrapower, okay -- I mean, the first place, you can give you an idea of the investment?
Bill Gates: To do only the software the supercomputer, all the major scientists, all the major scientists, which is only 10 millions, and even though we test our materials in a Russian reactor to be sure that our materials in a Russian reactor that our materials, then it will be hundreds of millions.
And the hard becomes the construction of the experimental reactor, finding the couple of the regulator, the site of the regulator, the site of the regulate.
And once you have the first built, if this works like advertising, then it is just considerable, because the economy, the energy density, the energy is so different than nuclear energy as different than nuclear energy as we know it.
CA: And yeah, to understand it, it's going to be building deep under the ground deep under the ground, of nuclear fuel of nuclear fuel of nuclear fuel of consumer uranium, and then it starts to the farm?
BG: That's right. Today, the reactor, the reactor, so you have a lot of people and many of the control, so many of the control that thing you have to open and stuff, and you have to open and stuff.
That's not good.
So, if you have a very cheap fuel that you can put 60 years, that you can put 60 years, you think of it as a background process -- they don't have that complexity.
And it's just done and burn years, and then it has been done, and then it has done.
CA: It's a nuclear centrale, who solved his own waste problem.
BG: Yeah. Well, what happens with the waste -- there is a lot less waste with this approach -- there is much less waste with this approach -- whether you can actually turn it into another and burning it out.
And we are starting to make the waste that exists today, that is in the reactor or or is takes in the reactor.
That's our fuels to start.
So, what a problem was coming out of these reactors is actually what gets introduced in the one, and you reduce the volume of the waste dramatic by this process.
CA: But in your global conversations about these possibilities, which is most interested to do anything.
BG: Well, we have no particular place, and there are no particular place, and there are all everywhere interesting public regular across everything else in Russia, China.
I have the state secretary of energy about this, to talk about this, to talk about how this past in the energy agenda.
So I'm optimistic. You know that the French and the Japanese and the Japanese --
This is a variant on something that's been done.
It's a major step forward, but it's like a quick reactor, and many countries they built everybody who has built a quick reactor is an potential candidate to build the first thing.
CA: So, in your mind, time scema and probability of something like this.
BG: Well, we have such for such electricity.
That's sort of a term of term that the environmental models that we have to do.
And, you know, Terrapower, as everything wells, which a lot of people wish.
And there are now, lucky 10 companies, we need hundreds of hundreds of them -- who, indials their research, as the financiation for their proinstallations.
And it's the best when there are multiple beat, because then you can use of a mix of these things.
We need at least one to sleep.
CA: In terms of possible changes on great scale, is this the biggest that you know?
BG: A energy breakthrough is the very important.
And that would have been that even without the environmental limitation, but the environmental limitation makes it right so much bigger.
In the nuclear sector.
You know, we don't know their work as well, but the modular people, but the modular people, which is another approach.
There is a type of fluid reactor, which seems a little bit difficult, but maybe.
So there are different, but the beauty of this is an uraniummolecule has a million times of energy as much energy as many energy as much as a carbon molecule, and so if you can deal with the negative effects that are the radiation, the footprint and the costs, the opportunities, the possibilities on the country and different things.
CA: If this isn't works, what?
Do we are starting with the attraction of necessarily measuring the temperature?
BG: If you're in that situation, it is as though you have overweight, and on the point to get a heart attack.
Where do you go to the heart or something.
There is a line of research called geo-engineering -- that his different techniques that the heats warming heat.
That's just a kind of insurance.
You hope you don't need that.
Some people say that you don't even have to work on such a consure because it maybe you keep away that you keep you eat because you know that there is a hartoperation to save you.
I don't know whether that mind is the importance of the problem, but there is now the geo-engineering discussion, the geo-engineering for the case, or as the innovation of the innovation is going to happen, or as the innovation is going to be expected.
CA: Klimaat skeptici: if you could say a or two sentences to them?
BG: Well, unfortunatfortunately come out of different camps.
There are very, very few arguments.
Are they going to have negative feedback of negative feedback to the clouds.
There are very, very few things that they could still be able to job.
The main problem that we have just like AIDS.
You make the mistake, and you're paying a lot later.
And yeah, when you have all kinds of problems, the idea behind the idea behind the pain to get it later -- and a sense of uncertain pain.
In fact, the IPCC report, the IPC, not necessarily the worst scenario, and there are people in the rich world that are going from the IPCC and say, oke, oke, okay.
And it should be that uncertainty that shows us to this.
But my dream is that, if you can make the economic, one let of the CO2-limitations, then the CO2-cooptics say, oke, OK, it can't be CO2 out of CO2 from CO2, but I would even wishes that there was CO2, but I'm going to be accepting it because it's cheaper than before.
CA: And that would be your response on the argument of Bjorn Lomborg, which is actually if you spend all these energy energy to solve the CO2 problem, is going to be that cost of all of your other goals to try to lose the world of poverty.
It's a stupid of aid resource of aid resources to spend money to spend money that we can do with it.
BG: Well, the actual exgame for that R&amp;D particular -- say that the United States a year 10 billion more than now -- is not so dramatic than now -- is not so dramatic.
It doesn't have to go away from other things.
It is really just walking up in major, and it can responsibilities of people, when you try something that is uneconomic, when you try to finance something that is uneconomic.
And that is, most of course, usually a display.
And unless you very close to a solution and you just the teacher and you just the teachers and then it's very cheap.
I think we have to try to be more things that the potention to be much less expensive.
And if it expensive that you start to make the energy super expensive super expensive, then the power.
I mean, we all could pay five times, five times.
The disaster is that two billion.
And even Lomborg is changed.
His credo now, why is not talking about.
He’s still speaks, because of his earlier, associated with the skeptic camp, but he realized that a free camp, but he realized that a free of the R&amp;D point.
And so there is a red wire that I think is interest.
It's funny a little bit of the R&amp;D shared --
CA: Well Bill, I suspect that I speak from the most people here here as I say, I really hope that your wise wish. Thank you very much.
BG: Thank you.
By part with you a few months ago, when I discovered a few months ago, when I wrote an article for the italian Wired.
I love the thesaurus to the these, when I'm writing, but I was writing, but I was working on the government, and I thought I had never been the word "invented the word "invented.
I read you the text.
"Invalide," pully: "Cupile, helpleasures, crib, crazy, crap, crowd, circle, crap, crochad, decred, expected, expected, expected, definitial, conclucky, deternaturally, ded, definitted, definited down, crowd, detected, extremely extenside,
Antonice: healthy, capable."
I read this for a girlfriend and had to laughing because it was so ridiculous but following my voice, and I had to stop my voice, and I had to stop again, and I had to stop the emotional shock and the clap that caused these words.
Good, of course, this is a good old thesesaurus.
I think this is an old pressure, now.
But it was a pressure beginning in 1980s, when I began with the lower school and a picture of myself, and a picture of myself outside my family and the world to the other children and the world around me.
I don't have to say that I use.
With this description seems as though I was born in a world in which someone when I was considered to say anything positive, while I'm right now, while I'm right now.
So I immediately went looking for the 2009, online edition, and expectancy.
This is the particular version of the text.
Jammer enough.
I think the last words in the last words of "Dist-straight" and "completely and "completely so."
It's not just about words.
It's about our opinion about people when we legs them with these words.
The values behind the words, and how we construct those values.
Our language affects us think and how we think and how we see the world and how we look at other people.
A lot of old societies including the Greeks and the Roman and believed that the speak was so powerful was so powerful because if you saying, because if you say something heard.
So what do we want to do is a person who is a person who is limited or a person who is?
If we do something, you know, if we do something like the case of a person, a child, then we have a child, then we have a shadow about their force.
Don't we rather doors for them?
Someone who was my doctors for me was my doctor when I was child at the A.I. Dupont, Institute in Wilmington, Delaware.
He's called Dr. Pizzutillo.
Italian American-American whose name was to speak to speak, so he was Dr. P. P.
Dr. P. P. always was very colory strikdles and had precisely the good institution to work with kids.
I enjoy almost everything in the time I was in that disease, with exception of the physian-sessions.
I had to do a nearly number of repetangular exercise -- different colors -- different colors -- to build.
I hate that elastics more than everything.
I hate them, gave it took them.
And as a five-year-olds I already all with Dr. P. for exercise under that exercise.
And one day, he came up with a session -- exhausted and genadelivery -- and he said, "Wow. Aimee, and he said, "Wow. Aimee, you're such a strong girls of a strong such an elasts.
If you let me give you a hundred dollars."
Of course, this was a tactical of Dr. P to make me the exercise that I didn't want to do with the exercise that I wouldn't do with the five-year--old girl girl of the department, but what he did for me was that he was a new.
Today, I'm asking question, I wonder in how fishing his vision and that I was a strong and powerful girl, my self-inherent, my self-strong and atletical person to the future.
This is an example of how adults in power sposities can be able to wake the power of a child.
But in the previous situations of that thesesaurus-text language of our evolution to the reality that we all would like to look at the individual for the individual for the individual for the individual to see themselves.
Our language is following the changes in society, and a lot of that technology.
With name, from medical point, my legs, my legs, laser treatments for sleeping and couldness, and couldness, and care for old bodies that people do more do with their opportunities to their potentified by the nature of nature that people can describe in the nature of people who can describe the world, in which people can described with the world's groups that people can describe able to describeing with the world's groups that they can be able to deeps with the world,
So maybe a lot of technology is now showing us a lot of truth has been an truth: that everybody has something extraordinary and something powerful has something more powerful and ability to adapty.
The ability of human capacity is interesting, because everybody's interesting, because everybody wants to talk to me about the overcome up with me, and I'm going to talk about, and I'm going to know something.
And that sentenceed me that sentence, and it felt uncomfortable to answer the questions of people to answer the questions of people,
And the frame implicates that success" implicates that success or happiness or happiness that means you go again after a challenging experience, without a scrammaking experience, as though my successes in the life of the ability to have the ability to be the pursuing of a life with artists of a life with artists, what other people like my hands as my hands as my handicine.
But in fact, of course, we are changed by a challenged by a challenge, whether it's physically, emotional or both.
And my point is that a good thing.
Actually, not obstacle is not obstacle that we need to be able to live.
It's a part of our life.
I have tend to see it as my shadow.
Sometimes I see a lot of them, sometimes very few of it, but it's always like me.
I'm not going to sure the impact and the importance of somebody.
There is a contradiction and challenge in life, and it's all really and for everybody, but the question is not before you have to get up with it.
So our responsibility is not simply to protect our neighborhood to protect it.
We don't point our children as we don't feel that they're not able to fit that they're not able to fit that they're not able to address it.
There is a major difference and distinguished between the objective fact that I am an amputeed and the subjective society on whether I or not invition.
Actually, the only real hands that I came up with the world that I came up with the world that was always that you could describe me with that definitions.
In our desire to protect our nearly protecting the kille facts of their medical medical of their medical quality of life, we need to make sure that we're not the first stone.
Maybe the current way of looking at what piece is going to repair and how to repair and how to repair the pathology than the pathology.
By not to go from the universe of a person won't recognized to recognize a new disease, we create a new disease of the natural carry.
In fact, we add the ordinary value for our society for our society.
So we have to look at the pathology to look at the scala of human ability.
The most important thing is that there is a collaboration between those visible text and our best creative power.
It's not going to get those hard times, or explore to devalue that we want to avoid or under the floor, but to discover the opportunities of that opportunities in the opportunities.
And perhaps the idea that I want to bring that you don't have to remember, but you have to open for it up, but you have to open for it, but you have to be able to use the room, maybe even though thing, maybe even thank thing, maybe even though though thing, maybe even though though then.
If we look at consistent and naturally consistent and useful, we might feel fewer through it.
And this year, we celebrate the 200th birthday of Charles Darwin, and when he wrote 150 years ago, I think a fact Darwin the human character.
Free transly, it's not the strongest species that survive, nor the most intelligent, but the kind of intelligent, but the kind of change.
Conflict is the genesis of creation.
Another of Darwin's work we can be able to survive that the human ability to survive and driven by the mental gets through conflicts to transformation through conflicts to transformation.
Again, transformation, transformation, which is our biggest ability.
And until we don't know what we aren't know what we aren't what we are.
Bellight is that the consciousness is that consciousness, a sense of our own force.
So we had to give ourselves.
We can imagine opportunity.
Maybe we can see it as change.
Actually, is changed that we haven't adapted.
And I think the most important contradiction that we have given ourselves the understanding normality."
Who is there?
There is no normal.
There is goods. There is typical. There is no normal. There is no normal.
And who should meet the poor graue person.
I wasn't thinking.
If we can get the paradigm to normality to normality of possibilities, or potention, or potention, or potential -- then we can get the force of many more children, and they extend to share their rare.
Anthropologists telling us that the only thing we needed our group of our group of our groups.
There are evidence that Neanderthals, 60,000 years ago, their parents and remember, maybe because the life's living experience and surviving these people of value for the community: they were considered to be built and useful as a broken and values; they were seeing as rar.
A few years ago, I was on the market in the village that I grew up in the north piece in north Pennsylvania, and I was forced about a tros.
It was summer. I had a short breed.
I heard a man behind me, "If that Aimee Mullins."
I turned around, it was an older man. No idea that he was an idea who he was it.
I said, "Pardon, do we know each other? I can't remember that.
He said, "It's good possible that you don't know that we know each other.
Then we meet out of your mother."
Oh, that vent.
And of course, when the quare.
This guy was doctor Kean, a guy that I only know through my mothers my mother's stories of that day, because I came to let my own birthday.
And my mother's mother's prentice was already on vachange, so the guy that was a strange for my parents.
And because I was born and without sheet, and a couple of tens, and a couple of tens, and a couple of the news news.
He said to me, "I had to say, "I had to walk your parents that you could never be able to walk, and never have the movement freedom that other children and totally couldn't have life and totally independent life.
The extraordinary is he told him that he has collected collectures for my childhood, or a collection for my childhood class in the second classroom in the second classroom in the second classons, my university -- my university, or one of my sportion, or one of my sporders, and he used it in his integrated in his sportive students at Hahman.
Of course he called the x-factor, the potential of the human will.
No progress can predict how powerful this can be as a defining factor for the quality of someone's life.
Dokter Kean went on and he said, "I think that if it's not contradicted that if it is not contrained and even with only constraining, a child of itself."
You see, doctor had been thinking has changed.
He understood that is a difference between the medical condition and what someone could do with it.
And in the course of time my thinking about, if you had asked me as 15-year-old, or I would have asked my arts for real legs for real legs for real legs.
I used to pursuch a normality.
If you ask me, I don't know it yet.
And that is because of the experiences that I haven't despite the experience.
And perhaps this is changed because I'm expowered to people who have been exposed for me than to those who wanted to take me and days to those who wanted to take me and days.
Look, you've only got one human that shows you the public of your own force, and there you.
If you can give someone the key to his own power, the human mind is so definitely if you can open it and in an essential moment a door for someone can open a door for someone can open the best way.
You teaches them door.
The exact meaning of the word "education."
And that means that some inside is bringing inside and potentially bringing outside.
So again, which potential we want to take outside.
There was a case-study in the '60s in England, where they went from gymnasia to school.
It's called "streaming trial." In the United States, we call it.
They divide students in 10, 9, 7, 7, etc.
The 10-students have a difficult paket, the best teachers, etc.
For a three months of three months they gave 4-students had 10, and they told them that they were 10, and they were telling intelligent.
On the end of the three months, they were at 10-level.
The heart shift of this study is that they were the 10-students that they were telling the 10-students that they were celebrator.
And that also happened to three months.
Those who were still in school, next to the people who had gotten down.
A crucial part of this research was that the teachers were also hold.
The teachers didn't knew that there was something.
And there it was tell: these are the students with teens, this one.
And so they were so treatment, and they treat them.
And I think the only real hands is a cnaked a cnaked a cnaked crazy no hope.
He's no beauty.
He's the natural curious curiosity is not allowed us to be born to imagine.
If we can instead of the spirit to keep hope to keep hope, to be able to see beauty and others, to be curious and fantasy and fantasy and fantasy our power.
And if a mind this qualities, then we are able to create new reality, we are able to create new ways to be able to create new ways to be there.
I want to close with a poem by a poem-century Pero-century Persic poem, Haf, far my friend Jacques Demish.
The poem is called "The god that just know."
"Each child knows God, not knows the God of nearly not the God of do, but the God that only know four words he says, "thank dance with me. Come, dance with me.
Thank you.
