A few years ago, Peter Skillman here, at TED, a design competition --
The marshmallow-challenge.
The idea is pretty simple: Groeps of four to make a so high possible to be able to create a double built a meter carpon and a marshmallow.
The marshmallow to up.
And, although it sound, it turns out to work together, because this assigns people to work together very quickly together very quickly.
And because I found this an interesting idea, I decided, I decided to take it into a design design workshop.
And it was a big success.
Since then, I have this exercise in about 70 design workshops around the world with students, designers and architects and architects and architects, and even bases of Fortune 50-companies.
And this exercise gives us deep insights in how people work together, and I want to share with you.
Normally, is the first step that people are preparing on the causes that people are prepare.
They're talking about, they are going to look at it, play mass games playing mass playing.
Then they go planns,
They're sketches and spaghettile.
Most of the time they build increasing bigger building.
And at the end, when the time is almost of time is taking someone the marshmallow him to put it careful up on the top, do a step back and ... Oh, yeah!
They're amazing their work.
But what really happens, most most of them is that the "tat" changes in an oh oh," because the weight of the marshmallow the whole building.
Bepal people have more of those "oh oh oh moments than others.
And what of the worst are only graded, with a MBA.
They're going to play fallers, and they make pretty extremely building.
And then, of course, there are teams that make a lot more "task building.
And with the best of those are graded.
That's a little impressive.
And Peter tells us, that they make not just the highest of the most interesting.
So what do you suggest: How can this: How can this?
Peters answer is: "None of the children spills of the Spaghetti BV." Jist.
They're no time with power game game games.
But there's another reason.
And that is that economists and trained to find the only right solution.
And then they're going to get that extent.
But what happens, when they put the marshmallow the marshmallow up to it.
It's a disaster.
Sounds of know?
And the little bit of a little bit different,
is that they start with the marshmallow.
They build prototypes, and new prototype,
increasingly with the marshmallow up, so they have more opportunity to repair prototypes.
Remembers recognize this shape of a collaboration as the basis of an iterative process.
At every version of the kids are measured in fact, and what does not work.
So building prototypes is very important.
But let's see how different teams.
And the average for most people is about 50 cmix.
Here's the economists of the lawyers, it's not much better.
Colderers, better than most of the adults.
Who does it do past?
Architects and engineers, happy.
And the highest building was a high.
And why? Because they understand triangles, and self-extincite medical structures are the key to build stable.
CEOs, something better than average.
But now it gets interesting: if you put a secretaring aresse at the team they get pieces better.
Remember, you see the team and thinking, "those are going to win.
And you can see that from today. And why?
Because they are good at support to support.
They're managed the process.
And every team that is good regulars and attention for the work of that team is going to come in.
Gespecialized and supporting skills together.
If you are normally about 10 teams this will have a city to have a city of building work.
And I tried something interesting.
I thought, we make it a little exciting.
So I'm going to winning 10,000 dollars on software from the winning team.
And what do you think these design students did?
What happened?
It next these.
No had a team had a city building.
A tower of a tower -- for example, a centimeter, had had been enough to win.
Interestingly that a higher impully.
We've repeared with the same students.
And what do you think that happened?
So now they understand the use of prototypes.
And this team changed the worst team in one of the exist.
They made the highest building in the least time.
So that's a good lesson for us the nature of rewards and success.
You might you wonder, why you would somebody like to spend your time to write a marshmallow challenge?
The reason is, I work with digital tools and processes and processes to help teams in building cars, computer games and visual effects.
And the marshmallow-challenge helps them to get the hidden behind.
Because, fairly said, every project has his own marshmallow, right?
And the challenge of a part of experience, a common language, a common language, a semental institution to make the best prototype.
And so that is the value of the experience of this so simple exercise.
And for who's interested in order challenge.com.
And on this blog you can see how to build the mashmallows.
There are standing of step-stacks.
There are examples of how people all around the world tricks and adapting.
There are also global records.
And the fundamental lessis, I think that design is really a contactsport.
And it was the inside of all our senses, and that we feel very best thinking of our senses, feeling for the challenge of challenge for the challenge of all our senses.
And sometimes a small prototype of this experience to be enough to change in a "oh moment in an oh" moment in a "take-moment.
And that makes a big difference.
Thank you very much.
So let's just suppose that we have a great machine, a great machine, a great machine, a great machine, a very great machine, a while machine.
And everyone has to do it.
And you can get back in time or forward in time, but not here and now.
I am legged what you would choose, because I have the last time I have all this question to all these friends and they want to all to be back.
They all want to go back to time before cars or Twitter or "American Idol,"
I don't know.
I'm convinced that there is a certain hang to nostalgion, to wish.
And I can get in there.
But I don't hear there, I have to say that.
I don't want to remember and not because I'm so adventured -- but it's possibilities -- but it's possibilities of this planet.
They're not going to go forward.
So I also want to go in the machine and I want to go forward.
We live in the great time on this planet on the planet on the planet on the planet on this planet on the planet -- opportunities, opportunities, opportunities of diseases.
Never had been a time as this.
My major grandparents all around the 60.
My grandparents have all the 70.
And my parents are already in the 80.
And so I have to get a piece in the 90.
But it's not going to talk about us.
There is a lot more on the game.
A child that today in New Delhi is born has a life expectation to that of the richest man in the world.
Think about that. That's an incredibly fact.
And why is that true?
The smallpox. The smallpox. The planet.
They had an impact on the demography of this world bigger than that of any war.
But they're not exist. They're gone away.
We have it over. We have them over.
In the wealth world existence, which is a generation of millions of people threatened as well.
Difteria, childhood --
anyone here knows what that was?
Inentations, modern medicine our opportunities to prevent billions of food method to prevent billions of the scientific method.
And for me, the scientific method, the scientific method, and it doesn't work, and it doesn't works and not leave indionals, one of the largest consideration of humanity.
That's the good news.
But sptiely enough is that the only good news because there are some other problems, they were a couple of problems, and one of them is that unclearly, despite all our amazingly, there are always a billion people hungry to this world, every day.
Their number of number and it takes it fast.
And not only that, we have a imagination to refront, to refrent this world very much to dirty extension.
Drinkable water, agricultural rainforests, oil, and gas: they're going to disappear, and if we are going to be able to work out of this misery, and we will disappear.
The question is this: Can we think about that?
I think it's clearly that we are able to be able to make food for billions without the country without the country without the country that we live in life.
I think we can imagine this world of energy form that doesn't help him in the destruction of the destruction.
I believe that one, no, that's not a wish.
But now, that that I wake the night, one of the things that I wake up at night.
We have ever been so dependent on scientific advancement, and we never have been able able to make use, and we never have been able to make use, as we can.
We are on the threshort of the most amazingly amazing advancement.
And yet, I really think that we have hundreds of years, say, only 300 years, you have to go back to the time of the United to find a time that we take away to advancement, that we have these innovation regions of heart and more areas of more area,
People are hanging their faith with such heart stoight to that it is impossible to freedom.
And listening, everybody has right on his own people; everyone has the right, everyone has the right, but you know where you have no reason you know where you have no right?
You don't have a law on your own facts. No, that you don't have that you have not.
And I did a while about it.
A teental years ago I wrote a story about inentions for "The New Yorker," a short story.
I was amazing amazing opposite to find in fact, the most effective measured for the public health in history.
I didn't know what I do is just writing a story about it, and I just wrote a story about it.
I wrote a story about genetic manipulated food.
You know the same, but still worse this.
People were crazy.
So I also wrote there a story, and I couldn't understand why people found this food, why people found this food, why they thought it was manipulating molecules in a touch, instead of an accident, a transformation against the nature of nature was a retraction against the nature was a story.
But, you know, I do what I do. I wrote a story and went to the order of the day. I'm now a journalist; we're going to eat the time, we're going to eat and that is that.
But these stories was refrigerate, I couldn't do anything why, but eventually well.
And because that was fanatics that made me in fact, which made me was not fanatics at all the way of the fanatics.
They were considered wrong, fatsoon.
And not like the people in this room.
And it was just that what I didness.
but then I thought, you know, let's be honest, we are on a couple in this world that we don't have the same regular as well.
We speak twoice.
We speak ironic about as between dealing crows.
"Fore."
OK, there are reasons and I think that we know it.
We're lost the belief institutions in the science and then in science and in the science, and there's not a reason not a reason not a reason not reason.
You just have to fall some names and you have to understand it.
Tsjernobyl, Bhopal, the Challenger, Viox, mass destruction, mass destruction of weapons, not very well through ponskills ...
I mean, you can do you can list your list yourself.
And there are problems and problems with those people that we thought they were always right.
So Wees skeptic.
Imal questions, ask and evidence evidence nothing to do in the way.
But now, if you get evidence, you have to address it and we don't take it and there we are not so good at that.
And the reason I can say that is that we can now be in a unprecisely unprecise and we hope that we hope to be so flew as possible.
About 12 years, there was a terrible story that was an awed story that an amazing between the epidemic, and the inention of autism and the inention of carrying and rodehd.
Again a natural.
Hopen studies were invented to whether this was true.
And that had to do it was a severe secustomach.
And the data came up with it.
They were found in the United States, in England, in England, in Canada, and all the same result: no conband, not in the United States, not in the United States.
But it's not doing it, it doesn't do it because we don't do it because we believe, we believe what we think and what we think and what we think and what we think and what we think about and what we really think about how to feel and what we really think,
We can't have a lot of papers a lot of papers of a official government that data, and I can come up with that, and I can come up with that, and I think we all can do that.
But you know what?
And the consequences were disaster, disaster, and the fact: The United States are one of the few countries in the world where the number of inentions in the world where the number of inenties in the world where the number of inents in the world where the maybe.
And that's a scance, and we should be shaming.
it's a terrible.
What's going on with us that we could deal with that we could decide it?
Now, I understand it. I understand it. I understand it.
Who is going to get may?
Does anyone of this audience ever see?
Combs don't of.
And here already not anymore, but it happened last year 160,000 times in the world.
That's a bunch deaths by maybe, 20 per hour.
But because it doesn't happen to be able to include the include and people like Jenny McCarthy McCarthy McCarthy and inscience and inscience and under Larry King Larry Live.
And they can do that because they can't do not make sure between the causes and accidents of conditions.
They're not understanding that these things seems to be practical.
And that is something that we need to learn and we have to learn to learn to learn to learn to learn
This guy was a hero, Jonas Salk.
And he free us of one of our worst things.
No far, no death fight, away. Polio, pood, away.
And that guy in the middle of the middle,
It's called Paul Offit.
He developed a vaccine against the rotavirus together with some other people.
It saved the lives of about 400,000 children in the third world.
Good, right?
Well it's good, except that Paul around predicting the vaccines, and how valuable they are.
and that people should be able to keep with it.
And so he says it says it is.
So Paul is a terror.
And if he lots of a public towards that only can the only only in the race of light.
He's home phone calls because there are people who are price to say that they know where his children to say that they know where his children.
And why? Because Paul has developed a vaccine.
I don't have to say, but vaccines are unfree.
Take it away and the disease, terrible disease, and that's what happens to be to happen.
We've got major return.
And it gets still getting kids are going to be able to get kids to disease, if you have the disease.
And they're not going to do not just maybe.
What with polio? Why not?
A former foundly wrote me some weeks, and said that they found me some of the surface that they found me a little bit.
No one has ever said that.
She wasn't leaving her child at all.
In no case.
Good.
Why? Because we have no polio more. And you know what?
Yesterday, not got polio here.
But, who knows, who knows, maybe someone on an airplane in Lagos Angels, and he fly flyh.
Within a couple of hours a carries and come to Long Beach, where he's going to be on one of those fantastic TED dinners.
And he didn't realize that he decided to a paralyzing disease, and we don't know it because that's not going to be that.
That's the planet that we live in. That's the planet, there is not a song of loved.
We're going to let us rather includes. And we love it.
Does everyone else of the morning,
Echinacea, a little antioxidant to the day through day?
I know it because half of the Americans do it every day.
They're smarching it and they use alternative drugs, and they don't do how often we discover that they're value to be able to discover that they are value.
The data is always the data always pointing again.
They're going to make your urine. And they never talk anymore.
OK if you want to spend 28 billion dollars for darker urine, Dan is that just like this.
Donch urine. Donker.
Why do we do that? Why do we do that? And I think I understand hate Big Pma.
We hate the government. We married that politics.
That must be healthcare presidentified his big.
They're that for millions of our agriculture.
They're amazingly amazing harsh and resting even for those of us that they can be able to permitters.
So we walk away, and where we are going to go through and spend to?
We are jumping in the poor of Big Placebo.
Da's great. I love Big Placebo.
But, you know, this is very because the entire purpose of rommel and we spend billions of dollars.
I brought a few of those things.
Ginkgo, chinea chinacea, chinacai, I don't know what that is, but we care of them out of it.
And you know what? If I tell this game people against me, and they say, "What can you shell? Let the people shell? Let the people do? Let the people do? Let the people do.
They're feeling good at it."
And you know what? You're wrong.
Because it can't be able to be whether the secretary of health service that says, "Hh, I'm not going to give you a consequence, "Hh, I'm not going to make mammographs.
or some cancer case, or some cancer that will be patients to treat coffement with the coffement --
If you begin to replace with evidence and science by belief and magic than finally you like to get to be true.
Then you get in the South Africa of Thabo Mbeki.
He's responsible for the death of 400,000 of his people by being able to death and quoil, and quote and quote the antiviral resources that can slow the antiviral resources.
Hundreds of thousands of notable in a country that all over over the country,
Don't tell me that these things don't have consequences.
They're alway. They have them alway.
Now, the most thought, the most attempted epidemic in which we are now the absurd between the ensurde between genetic engineered food and the organic elite and the organic elite --
It's an idiot debat. It has to stop it.
It's about metaphor.
This is ideology, not a science.
Everything that we eat, every single spring, every single set of peterness, every brushon the human.
And if you think that were in the physics."
There was no watermeloes.
Even a Christmas bombs. They all come from us.
We created them in the last 111,000 years.
Some of those products and some of those products and others didn't get it.
We found us what we were not instone.
Now we can do the same way to do the same way.
And, certainly, there are risks.
But we can produce vitamine vitamine and can be able to live and longer.
You don't want to do it?
I have to say, that I don't understand it.
We don't want a genetic modified food.
And why?
Well, you hear the whole time.
We don't like companies that take patents on living patents on living things.
We don't want companies the ownerships.
And you know what I response?
You've got to do. Let's do something about it.
It's true. It's true. It's true.
It has nothing to do with science.
And this is going to be launched patents.
Science is not a society.
No country.
Even idea; it's a process.
It's a process and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't work and sometimes.
But the idea that we have to store the science to do her work because we are really working for it because we really really really conclude and millions of people are hearing to any well.
You know, the next 50 years, in the next 50 years, we will need more food than today.
70 percent.
This graphic is the graph of the investment in Africa for the last 30 years.
Scandalig. Schandaly.
They really need it to remember it.
And the reason? Genetical ways of food.
We don't want people not want to get people to cassave for example, for example,
Cassave is the daily food of a half billion people; it seems to be a lot of potato potato potatoles.
It has only a lot of calories. Warls. Wardless.
And it contained not a nutritions like proteins, and scientists are enough to do something about that.
So that people can eat it.
They'd not recently, and you know what?
That would be fine a haut, it would be a haut, but it would be fine to be fine there.
And everything I have to say is this: Why are we contravic?
I mean, let's ask us that question: why are we contravic?
Because we don't want to shake with it?
And this is going to be reverse to make a chemicals with chemicals
And, not with our rewards of hormones, and we don't have to go to more, better and special eat.
It's not about Rice Krispies, it's about Rice Krispies, it's going to keep people in life.
and it's going to start to understand what that wants to say.
Because you know what?
If we don't do it and go through as we are, we are nothing that we don't want to be nothing that we don't want to be now, high-tech colonialism.
I don't think that I don't think better to describe this better.
It's self-oxious, and we have to do something about it.
So after this incredibly engaged to say, "You might want to say, "You might want to say, "You want to say, "You want to go and travels forward?"
Absolutely I want that.
Now it's still in the hot of the universe but we have an amazing opportunity.
We can do that time machine for everything we want to use.
We can bring them to a future, and we can actually bring them to where we want, and we're also going to bring them to where we want.
We need to continue with these excitements and we need to keep thinking but if we step and forward forward that we have done, and we have to be happy that we did.
I know we can do it, and that is, for what I do, something that has to know.
Thank you.
Thank you.
A columnist of the Los Angeles Times...
Steve Lopez, walking on a day.
by the center of Los Angeles...
when he heard beautiful music.
And it came from a guy.
A black man.
Charmant, losted home.
HIs played on a violin the violin the violins.
I'm telling something that many of you already knows.
because the columns of Steve was the basic ...
for a book that a film.
Robert Downey Jr. plays the role of Steve Lopez.
and Jamie Foxion that Nathaniel Anthaniel Anthaniel Anthaniel Anthaniel Anthaniel Anthaniel
the classic was the classistance,
those are farmed career --
because he was suffering schizophrenia.
Nathaniel stop the Juilliardconservatorium, distortiny --
and 30 years later he swhether he home.
by the poorest streets of Los Angeles.
You should read Steve's book, or the film.
Not just for the beautiful band...
that was the two males.
But also to see what role play --
a instrumental roll, if I say that this --
to get Nathaniel of the street.
I met Ayers in 2008.
two years ago, in a Disney-concertles.
And he had been listened to an execution of the 1st and 4th symphony of Beethoven,
and the backstage and backstages.
He talked to a jovial and social ways.
about Yo-Ma and Hillary Clinton.
HIy said that the Dodgers never the World Series.
Everything to have a hard of a hard fiddom.
in the last part of the fourth symphony of Beethod.
We spoke about music. Later I got a mail of Steve-...
that Nathaniel that Nathaniel of wanted to have a viool.
You have to know that Nathaniel don't want to be treated.
And when he was treated treated shock therapies ...
a chlorpromazine and handbook-...
and that has drawn for his lifetime.
And the result is that he is that he now.
numbers of shifrenia.
Actually, the worst attacks.
and suddenly it ...
and then he disappear.
He sworks on the street ...
and lives with that narity and the worder in his heads,
that follows on times.
Nathaniel invented in such such a measure.
And then we started to do with our first lesses.
He had a manical gue in their eyes.
He was disappeared.
He talked about ...
invisible demons and crazy ...
and someone who wanted him to be a sleep.
I was scene.
Not for myself, I was afford ...
that I would get him ...
that he would be awed in such an attacks,
and I would be related with the violin the violin --
And if I started talking about shows ...
and arpeggios and other example ...
from what you learn to teaches.
So I began to play.
I played the first part of the vioolconcert of Beethod.
While I play ...
I saw a clearly changed --
in the eyes of Nathanile.
It was like an invisible medicine his work.
A chemical response for which my play ...
the catalyzed.
The manical excitement of Nathaniels.
changed in understanding.
And in the stille curiosity.
And if by a wonder he was a packed on his own viol.
and began to play play to play.
Bepal fragments of fiddom.
that I had to decreate -- Mendels --
Tchaikovsy, Sibe.
We started talking about music -- Bach...
Beethoves and Brahma,
Bruckner, all Bs.
From Bartist to Esa-Pekka Salonen.
I saw in that he wasn't all ...
a encyclopedic musical musical knowledge,
but he was a personal display by that music.
He talked about the same passion,
and the same understanding as I and my colleagues ...
from the Los Angeles Philharmonic.
By to make music and talk about music and talk about music --
was this guy changed ...
of the paranoid man, confusion,
that judgment,
from Los Angeles had come ...
in a charman,
brilliant classic music.
Music gene: Music changes us.
For Nathaniel is music a healthy.
And by music he can he can be a thought,
and distortions --
via are fantasy and creativity ...
in reality.
And that is how it seems to be able to do.
and have been troubled attacks.
I saw in that that the essence of art.
That's why we make music.
And we take something that are in all of us --
in our core.
Our emotions.
And that we learn from our artistic lens:
through our crativity that emotions can reform to reality.
And the reality of that expression,
and reaches all us.
We are getting up, inspired and multiply.
Nathaniels.
And it was a group of music back.
The saving force of music was brought him.
in a family of musicians
that he was understood ...
These are talents talents ...
and that him respected.
I'm going to keep music with Nathanile.
Or it now Walt Disney Concert Hall is ...
or on the street. He remember,
why I have become musician --
Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Robert Gupta.
I want to play something that I was shooms of celles.
Forget me.
I'm Jane McGonigal. I'm a game designer.
For 10 years I make games.
And my purpose for the next decades to make it as easy to save the world in real life as it's games.
Now, I have a plan, and that plan, and that plan to be more people, you all including more time to spend more time to spend more time to spend more time.
At this moment we play three billion hours a week online games.
Some of you probably think of probably, "That's a lot of time to play games to play."
Maybe a lot of time, maybe a lot of important problems in the real world that people have to solve it.
But actually, it turns out to the Institute For the Toe, which is the opposite is that the opposite is true.
Three billion hours a week of hours a week of the world's major problems.
More you -- I believe that if we want to survive the next century on this planet, that we have to be incredibly increase.
I calculated that we need in totally 21 billion hours a week.
And that's probably a strange idea, so I'm going to leave it again, I'll let it includes.
If we want problems to solve problems like hungry, climate change, global conflict, worldwide, I believe that we have to try to try to be able to try to play wealthy at least 21 billion hour online games against the end of the next decade.
This is the reason. This photograph, this photograph, why games are so important for the future of humanity.
This is a portrait by a photograph, Phil Tolean.
And he wanted to take the emotion.
So he put a camera for gamers while they play.
And this is a classic emotion to the games.
Now, if you're not a gamber, you'll probably some nuances in this picture.
You probably see the sense of pressure, but also intense intense concentration, a deep focus to solve a very difficult problem.
If you're a gamb, you'll have a couple of nuances here, the crowd the eyes and mouth is a sign of optimism.
And the wishs craws to be a sign of surprise.
This is a gamber who is going to be an epic store is called an epic stor."
Ah, you know that. Okay, good.
So we have a couple of gamers.
A "epic win" is an outcome, which is so incredibly positive, that you wouldn't know that it was possible.
It was almost not to imagine.
And when you're surprised to discover what you really art. That's an epic story. That's an epic story.
This is a gamber on the point of an epic win."
And this is the face that we have to look at millions of problem solve problem solving hindes around the world, while we try to take the next century.
And the face of someone who are expectations in the point is a "epic story.
But unfortunately, we see this face in the daily life as we are trying to packages.
This is what I call it "I call Ben God in the Leven" --
And this is I actually does. Can you can see it? Yeah.
And this is I call it "I Niet God in the Leven" --
This is a piece graffiti in my old neighborhoot in Berkeley, California, where I did my PhD in games than in the real life.
And this is a problem that have a lot of gamers.
We don't feel that we are not just good at the reality as we are in games that we are in games are in the games that we are in the reality as we are in the reality as we are in the reality as we are.
And I mean not just successful, even though that there is part of it.
And we reached it in games. But I mean, but I mean, but I also mean with good as well-motivate to work together.
And when we are in a game world, I believe that most of us the best version of our best version of ourselves, the most likely to help quick.
the most likely to keep as long as it needed to stay for a crime to stay after a crilucky.
And if we have a fail, a crime crip, when we are confronted with hinder, we don't feel so often feel so on.
We feel overwhelming our overwhelming our overwhelming our overwhelming.
We feel fearing of depressed maybe depressed or cynical.
We never have that feelings as we play games as we play games
they just don't exist in games.
So that's what I wanted to study when I was a student.
What part of games is it impossible we feel like we can't achieve everything.
How can we take those feelings of games and make them in the real world in the real world?
So I looked games like Word or Warcraft, which is really the ideal cooperative environment to solve.
And I began to notice some things that "epic wins" in the online world.
The first thing that I noticed is that every time you get to one of those online games are in one of those online games that you like to add a world-saving characters that you love a world-saving mission,
But not just a mission, a mission, a mission, a perfect that is adapted to your level in the game. You've been appear.
So, you can do it.
They never give you a challenge that you can't attention.
But it is the extremely of your opportunities. So you have to try hard.
But there is no employment in World or Warcraft.
You can't be something.
There is always something specific and important.
And there are a lot of contributgers.
Every place where you go, there are hundreds of thousands of people who are willing to help your epic mission to bring your epic mission mission to bring your epic mission missione.
That's something that we have to have a real life difficult that sense that within our will.
And also that there is an epic story, this inspiring story that we are here and what we do.
And then all the positive feedback that we get.
You've been heard of a level of a level of a level and plus-a force, and plus-a force,
Son" constante face of the real life.
When I went to this stage from this stage of stage, I'm not going to get a speak of plus-20, plus-20 numbers idea, plus-20 gets idea.
I don't get in the real life. I don't get in real life.
Now, the problem with collaborative online worlds like World of World or Warcraft is that it is such a very, very much of time at the point of an epic story, that we decide all our time to such this online games all our time to spend all our time,
It's just better than the reality.
Finally, World or Warcrafts players, all too 5.93 million years, all over the virtual problems of Azeroth of Azeroth of Azeroth of Azeroth of Azeroth of World of World of World of World of World of World of World of World of World of World of World or Warcraff --
Now, that is not necessarily anything.
And it sounds maybe bad it.
To clearly clearly, 593 million years ago, our first human prevent for the first human for.
That was the first one, right, right?
Okay, so if we talk about the amount of time that we invest in playing games, is the only way that it has in the sense of the human evolution, is just by talking about time in the context of the human evolution, which is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordinary thing that is an extraordin
But it's also games, because it turns out that we, by spending so many time to play from games, we do as many time to play that we are as human.
We evolve to a kind of cooperatively and opright.
This is true. I believe this.
So, I think about this interesting interesting.
And it was recently by a researcher of the Carnegie Mellon University published.
The average young person today, in a country with a country with a very important culture, 10,000 hours have been taken by the time he is 21 years old.
Now, 10,000 hours is a very interesting numbers.
First of all, for children in the United States is 10.80 hours the exact amount of time that you spends at school from the fifth teachers to you graduate if you are all the time.
So we have an eventually applied from education where young people teaching all the rest in school.
Some of you probably have Malcom Gladwell's book, "Outliers' book, "Outliers' book,
So you probably heard of his successful, the 10,000 hours success.
It's on this amazing, cognitive scientific research, that says that if we can have 10,000 hours for 10,000 years to be controlled to the only thing that we can be virtuots.
We'll be a very good at the world we do as the best.
And so, what we see is a whole generation young that are virtuos in the games.
So, the big question is, "Where are gamers then so well?"
Because if we can get a virtual unprecedented prediction of human potential.
This is the number of people who are playing in the world at least one hours a day online games in the world
These are our virtuoses.
500 million people who are extraordinary in anything.
And in the next decade decades, we will have a billion gamers that are extraordinary in something that are extraordinary in something that are extraordinarily that are extraordinary gamers.
If you don't know it.
And the gaming-industry is consoles of developing that requires needed and with wireless networks rather than band instead band the gamers of the world, especially in India, China and Brazil, China and Brazil, and Brazilia, and Brazil, and Brazil, and Brazil, the gamming ciracle of the gamers of the gamm
They expect a billion gamers over the next decades of decades.
That brings us to 1.5 billion gamers.
So I asked me wonder where we are being supposed to be virtuos.
I found four business, the first is burning optimism.
Okay. This can you can see this as extreme self-motivation.
Branhind optimism is the wants to trade measure, to packle a hindern chance on the belief that we have a reasonable chance on success.
Gamers always believe that a "epic win" is possible, and that it's always worth to try and try to try and try to try and try and try to try and try to try and try to try and try and try and try to try and try to try and try and try to try and try and try and try and try to try and try to try and try to try and try and try to try and probers,
Gamers don't don't have any gamers don't.
Gamers are virtuos' virtuos in the road social steof.
There is a lot of interesting research that we play that we play a game with them, even though they have been making us at all the way that we have been made.
And the reason is that you need trusted to play a game with someone a game --
And we trust that they are going to spend them with the same rules, that they're going to play the same rules, that they're going to play the same.
So a game play with someone the underling band, the trust and the confidence and the collaboration.
And as a result, we actually build more stronger social relations.
Sallast productivity.
You know, there's a reason that the average World of World of Warcraff of 2-hours a week, almost like a half-time famous.
And that's because we know that when we play a game we are actually happy to work hard than if we are trying to work or something.
We know that we made as humans to be hard, useful.
And gamers are always willing to work, if they get the right work.
And eventually, epic meaning.
And Gamers would like to be built on the planetary scale.
So a little legal to make that clear.
You all know Wikipedia, the biggest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the biggest wikipedia, the largest wikipedia, the biggest Wikipedia, the biggest wikipe
The second biggest wiki in the world, with almost 80,000 articles is the World Warcraft.
Five million people use it every month.
They're more info about World or Warcraff of World of Warcraft on the Internet than any other collapsed by another way.
They build an epic story.
They build an epic source of knowledge about Warcraft.
Okay, so that are four superforces that are superforces that are combined to one thing.
Gamers are super-forced individual individuals.
These are people who believe that they're able to change the world.
And the only problem is they believe that they're able to change virtual worlds and not the real world.
That's the problem that I'm trying to solve.
There is an economist, Edward Castronova.
His working is brilliant. He seek the reason people so many time and energy spend so much time and spend on online worlds.
And he says, "We are taken from nothing less than a real mass to exoy to virtual worlds and online gamegles."
And he's an economist, he's an economist,
And he say, "Not like me, I'm a game designer; I'm a game designer; I'm excited.
But he says that this is logic, because gamers can be more reached in a world than in real life.
They can have stronger social relationships in games than in real life.
They're getting better feedback and feel more reward more reward in games than in real.
So he says that it is perfect logical that gamers are spending more time in virtual worlds than in the real world.
Now, I'm also going to agree that that is rational is right now.
But it's not a optimal situation.
We have to do the real world in a game of game in a game of game
So I take my inspiration of something 2,500 years ago.
These are ancient death dobbles, OK?
For we had controllers had cool a cool cool cool cool cops.
And this suggests the first piece of tools to play to play --
And if you know the ancient Greek historician Herodotus Herodotus -- you might know this story.
the inventors of the first game and why they invented it.
Herodotus says that game that game with dobbles, particularly invented the kingduring Lydia for a hungry cood.
And apparently the hungry was so that the king of Lydia decent to do something.
People suffering. People are feet.
It was an extreme situation. They had to find an extreme solution.
So, Herodottus, they found a death of state and put a state policy.
One day, the one day, eat.
The next day, everyone plays everyone play measures.
And they would be so couple in their play in their play because play so much, and stupid us in such a salous productivity, that they wouldn't need.
The next day, they play game plays.
The day after it.
And then the next Herodotus they had this 18 years.
They survived a hungered by one day and eating the next day, and they play the next day.
Now, I think this is exactly how we use games today.
We're using games to be able to deal with the real world.
We use them to get them from the real world, and we use it to the real world, everything that is not enjoyed to the real life, and we have what we need from games.
But there is not to end.
This is very exciting.
After 18 years was not going to get Herodotus the hunger.
So the king that she would play that she would play a last death --
They shared the whole king of the kingdom.
They played one dobble, and the winner of that game was an epic adventure.
They would leave Lydia, and looking for a new living place.
And not enough people were kept to survive the life of lifese, and hopefully they could make the civilization somewhere else civilization somewhere else.
Now, this sound sounds -- right?
But recently showed DNA evidence evidence to the Etruse, which would lead to the Rome, as the old DNA as the old Lydiancy.
And so, scientists have suggested that Herodotus" is a story.
And geologists have found evidence of a climate change that almost 20 years.
So this guy could be true.
And it could be that they save their culture, by playing games, through play by play for 18 years, and then so much and then so many knew and so much knew and so much of the game.
Okay, we can we do it.
We're playing Warcraft since 1994.
And it was the first time strategy game of the World of Warcrafts series.
They played with death dober for 18 years, we playing Warcrafts over 16 years.
And I say we are ready for our own epic game.
Now, they had the population of the population for a new world.
So that's where I gamember, my 21 billion hours a week.
We're going to solve the hours of agree a day to go to an hour a day to solve problems in the real world.
Now, I know what you do, "How will we solve the problems of the problems by gament?" Well, that's what I have to solve the last couple of years, to the Institute For the Institute For the Tucome.
We have a banner in our building in Palo Alto, and it pressed our standpoint of how to deal with the future.
We don't want to predict him.
We want to form.
We want to imagine the best possible.
And then we want to give people the force to create that equality.
We want to imagine, "epic wins" and then people give the resources to get their "epic story.
I will show you a little three games that I made a point that I made an attempt to give people the resources to create their own epic stors."
Okay, this is World Without Oil.
We made this game in 2007.
This is an online game where you try to survive a teshort to survive.
And the short is fictional, but we don't know enough online content to make you believe that it's really -- and to show you real life as though life as if we don't have any oil. And so if we don't have the game you tell the game tell. And so you tell you where you live.
And then we give you reali-time pictures and the fact that you can actually show what the exact of oil, which is not available, how the food supply is affected to be influence, the transportation, or the schools are influences or runs --
And you have to figure out how to do your real life, you have to live out your real life as if this was true, and then we ask videos and pictures and pictures and pictures.
We're starting this game with 1,700 players in 2007.
And we follow them for the three years.
And I can tell you that this is a transformative experience.
No one wants to be lived only because it's good for the world or because it is good for the world or because we would have to do.
But if you take them upon an epic adventure, and she says, "We don't have an oil meas."
This is a great story and adventure to go.
Do to see yourself to see how you would survive.
Most players were held their lions that they recommendous in this play.
So, for the next world-saving game, we decided to rescue higher problems, bigger problems than an oil.
We made a game called Superstruct struck to the Institute For the Toe.
The plot was that a supercomputer had calculated that people had only 23 years.
This supercomputer had the name Global Extinction Awareness Syvoice.
We asked people to get online, almost as a Jerry Bruckheimerry film.
You know, Jerry Bruckheimerry Bruck films, you have a threat.
You've got the astronaut, the scientists, and they need to rescue the world.
But in our play, we have five people on the threw team, everyone on the three, and it's your job to find the future of energy, and it's your job to find the future of food and the future of food and the future of food and the future of the health and the future of the social of the social of the social from the social of the social of the social from the future of the social of the future and the future.
We had 8,000 people play the game, for eight weeks.
They're convenive solutions that you can see if you can see if you can see if you look like Google "Superstruct."
And then finally, the final game, we bring him on three maps. This game is made in collaboration with the World Bank Institute.
If you play the game you'll be certified by the World Bank Institute Institute, as a Social Institution, class of 2010.
And recognized with universities all over Swart Africa, and we reach them to learn social innovation skills.
We have a comic story. We have a system with a system with a system with the skills like local, knowledge, sustainability and findingness.
I would like to share all of you to share this play to share with young young -- all over the world, particularly developing area, that could be able to save their own social entrepreneurations to save the world.
So I'm going to go to now.
I want to ask a question.
What do you think is going to happen now?
We have all these amazing gamers, we have these games that are ideas of what we could do, but no one of them has been saved the real world.
Well, I hope that you are going to be an aid with me, that gamers are a human aid source, that we can use to help the real world, that games are a powerful platform for change.
We have all this incredible super-forces, salous productivity, the possibility to away, the possibility to away, social stunt of burning burning to a epic sense of burning as a epic meaning.
And I really hope that we can come together to play games to play games that make a difference on this planet.
And my hope is that you go with me, in making and play games and play games like this.
If I take forward to the next decades I know two things, I know two things, that we can imagine the future that we can prevent every future that we can play that we can play that we want.
So, I'm saying, let the world-changing playing games.
Thank you.
Since one time I've been interested in the placebo effect.
And that can seem strange for a magician unless you allow to the same meaning as I do, that's something that is take, is duseful by somebody believed that it really gets really believed that it really gets in certain particular studies: the place: the place: the place: the place: the place: the place-effect.
Just because the person in issue thinks that what is is going to be a crazy powerful tools or something.
For example, for example, for example, somewhereas somewhere in belief, it gets a measuable, the placebo effect.
Something that is not, because of the person's perception.
To make sure that we understand each other, I want to start with you a very simple basistrator.
And I'll show you how it works. This trick is certainly since the 'fifth in every year for children to find it.
I learned himself as little boy at the seventions in the seventially year.
I'll do the trick I do the trick I look at him.
And then I explained why I explain why I explained him.
This is what happens.
The whether you can see, my hand, that you can see.
And I'm going to do it this way in my dirtor in this way.
I will flow my minds.
And certainly certainly that there's nothing in my whether of mind, I will come here in my pols here.
And you can see that there is no movement.
And so long here, I can't get anything in this and I can't get anything in and come out of my mind.
The purpose is very simple.
I will open my hand, and hopefully, if it's good is, my magnetism is going to keep the cover.
And it is even support so stead, that I can shake it and that it doesn't look like the ground.
Nothing is in my mouse, no cheat. And you can coperate everything else.
Ta-day!
I learned this trick I learned to young kids that are interested in the good, because you can teach a lot of learning about crimp by studying it.
Even as the trick of the trick is very simple simple in the trick of each other.
Probably many of you probably know many of you this trick.
This is what happens.
I love it in my hand.
I say that I say that I think I think I don't have anything, to make sure that nothing in and comes out of my mind.
That's money.
And the reason I saw my pols is because there is the secret of the illusion.
At the moment my hands of your view away from your view of my wish-finger from his original place to one in a sense of his original place to one that he has been so forth.
"Mooi trick." Someone who had no youth of youth in the room.
This is going to be like this.
And if I turned around my finger.
And we can talk about why this is misleading is, why you don't you notice that there are only three fingers.
And that's because the brain information in a way that doesn't match a way that it doesn't matter two, three counts, but growing, it's growing.
But that's not really going to be about, right?
Of course, it is not going to be magnetism, but by cheating, by the presence of my wisdom.
And if I close my hand, the same.
And if I turned back again.
I'm going to go away. You reach it out.
A beautiful trick that you can do for friends and family for friends and family
Now, what does this have to do with the placebo effect?
About a year ago, I read a research that my eyes me opened the eyes of eyes --
I'm not a scientist, so for me was amazing.
It turns out that if you allow a placebo in the form of a white rounds that seems on an aspire that seems on an aspire impiration that seems like an effect.
And often as the shape of the placebo changes, for example by making a smaller pill, that you have color, and then you have a letter on the case is measurable effective.
And despite that not both adaptments medical meaning -- it's sugar pills.
But a white pile is not as well as a blue.
What? And I got really of the support up.
But it turns out, it can do that.
And it turns out that capsules are even effective away.
A colored capsule, the pile and the other side, is better than a white side, is better than a white one.
Doseration is a role.
A pill twice daily is not as well as three pillengineering -- I can't remember the statistics -- sorry.
But the point is ...
Compace a role.
And the shape a rol.
And for the ultimate placebo effect, we need to go to the needle.
Yeah, right? A injection with some inert, a few centers of a kind of inating a patient, a couple of a patient,
This is a huge powerful image in his mind.
It's many times stronger than the white pil.
We're going to see a graph graph, when we can see dias.
The point is, the white pill is not as good as the blue is not as good as the capsule, is not as good as the capsule, is not as good as the name as the name thing as the name thing as the way.
And no one of all has a real medicinal propert.
Just you believe it in your body, and creates a stronger effect.
I wanted to look at if I could apply that idea in a trick.
I wanted to take something that clearly a trick and really like that.
We know from that research that when you want to grab the needle.
This is a needle of almost 18 inches. It's fluid sharp.
I'm going to be a little bit of starise here.
This is really my meat. This is not a particular meat.
This is my skin. This is not Hollyword special effect.
I'm going to spend my skin, and this needle through my arm arm, until I put it through my arm to it.
If you're flaws oversits -- or if you are easily flaw flaws -- I did this trick for a few friends and also some people I don't know know.
A woman was almost of her sticky.
So I imagine that if you are oversitting the next 30. You know what, I do the first 30. You know what, I do the first heavy part of it.
You can look at the time you want.
This is what happens.
And I make a little bit of my poor, I make a little globe.
Sorry, man. Find you this crip?
And then a little sheep a piece and then through the other side outside.
Now, in essentially we are in the same situation as the same situation as with the mestructure.
A kind of thing.
But you can count my fingers, right?
I showed them here is two, three, five.
Yes,
I know people think that if they see this.
They think, "He's certainly not dom enough to spend themselves for a few minutes of entertainment of his public." Let me give you a look at it.
How does that look like this? Do good.
Yeah, I know it. The people back in the room, "Okay, I don't saw that I think don't saw real." People in the other room are now closer to the screen.
So let me show you this from close to you.
And that's really my skin. That's not Hollywood special effect.
That's my meat. I can go and turn that pain a little bit of it.
Sorry. If you get too much, you don't look at that thing.
People in the room or people later in the room of the images of the images will say, "That looks like a beautiful special effect, but if it was really like -- there is a hole and there, he would be blood." Let me give you a hole and so forth. If it was a little blocked for you.
Yes, there's it.
Normally, I would speak the needle of removing the needle.
And I would be my arm, and I would show you that there were no cover.
But in this context and with the idea of something that is takes and really make the needle and I just sit down, and I walk down the stage.
And the next days I'm going to see you even more more than that.
Hopefully you look at that. Thank you very much.
I know a lot of fishing in my life.
I love only two two two of them.
The first thing that looked like a passionate affaire.
It was a beautiful fish, good structure, good structure, a exist-seller on the menu.
What a fish.
Beter now, it was moved fish to the highest standards of sustainability.
So you feel good at the sell.
I had a relationship with this beauty for a few months.
And one day the head of the company and asked me or I wanted to speak on an eventual about the sustainability of the shortiny of the shorting.
"Absolut," I said, I said, "Absolutely saying.
Here was a company that was tried to solve that this incredible problem for our coks.
How do we love on our people?
In the last 50 years, we have the seas fishing the seas we have fish.
It's hard to resurprise the destruction of destroy
90 percent of the big fish, which we love the tunes, the sacks, the sacks, the sacks, the sacks, they are instone.
There is almost nothing about it.
So, the good or whatever, aquaculture, fishing fish, fish, visual part of our future.
Although there are a lot of arguments.
Fiscuits and pollutants, most of them althans, they are inefficient, they are inefficient.
A big minds.
It has a food conversier-15 against 15 against 1.
And that means that there was five-pound fish to get a pound.
Not very sustainable.
And it's not very well.
So here was finally a company that it tried to do.
I wanted to support.
The day for the event, I was the head PR of the company.
Let's call him Don it.
"Don," I said, "to get the facts, I said, "to get the facts of that you don't know because of it so far in sea, that you don't refront."
"That's right," he said, "We're so far out of the cost, that the waste of our fishing and not concentrated, and not concentrated.
And he added "We are in fact, we're in a global on itself.
And that food conversiero? 2.5 against 1," he said, "Bost in the business."
2.5 against 1, great.
"2.5 against one what?
"Duurzy protein."
"Great," I said, I said, "I explained the phone.
And that night, I was lay and thought, what is in godnment in godnment of godnes?
So the next day, I believe for the event, I called Don.
And I said, "Don, whatever his examples of sustainable proteines?"
And he said he wouldn't whe'd go around and would.
So I've been on the line with a number of people in the company.
No one could give me a clear answer.
And until I finally got the main biologist.
So let's call him Don it.
"Don," I said, "What are a couple of sustainable proteining instances of sustainable protein inind?"
All right, he called a single algae and a few fishing balls.
And I said, "Kipballs?"
He said, "Yeah, hhigh, shoot, shoot slowed and caused to be drought and cause."
I said, "Which percentage of your food?"
And think, two percent.
"Well, that's about 30 percent," he said he say.
And I said, "Don, what's sustainable to chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken on chicken to fish?"
And there was a long pause, there was a long pause, and he said, "There is just too much chicken in the world."
My love for this fish.
No, not because I have a selfingenuishing fine fine fine fine fine probs.
I love that.
No, I love my love for this fish for this fish. I swear down the fish to chicken to chicken to chicken to chicken to chickend.
This second fish, that's a very different love story.
It's the romantic species, the kind of which is that you have more of your fish, you like to know more of the fish.
I was at the first time in a restaurant in a restaurant in southern Spain.
A fripping journalist spoke for long over this fish.
She has us whether us or more engineer.
And he came up with a table, almost glorify white town.
The cok had cooked him too cooks.
Almost two times.
It's amazing partnership, he was now.
Who can a fish so well after he cooking after it is?
And I don't don't do this ft.
Let's call him Migual --
Actually, his name is also Migual.
And no, he's not cooked and he's not cooking and he's not cooking.
Don't lesh the way as you and I don't know and I don't know it.
He's a biologist in Veta La Palma.
That's a fish, that's a fishing in the southern of Spaint.
At the point of the Gaudalquivian river.
To the '80s, the decades of Argentinians.
They're photographs on some behavior.
They were doing it through the country to behave.
They built a complex channels and they pushed the water of the country in the river.
It wasn't couple of them, not economical.
And ecologically it was a disaster.
90 percent of the birds was death.
what, for these place, lots of birds are.
And so in 1982, a Spanish environmental company the country the country the country the country.
What did they they did?
They turned the waterflow the water flow.
They're literally put the button the button.
Instead of pushing water out and pushed the channels to late.
They put the channels under water.
They created a 1,100 hectare great fishing -- and harder, garnals, harder, shrimp -- and at the same time, Miguel and his company the ecological destation of the ecological destate.
The grid of this is great.
I mean, you've never seen something like this.
You look at the horizon who is infinitely far away and everywhere, you see over, and this thicky, rich moeras.
Not so long ago, I was there with Migule.
He's an amazing ventor Charles Darwin and one quarter Crocodi.
Okay? There we are plumbering through the behavior, and model, moduntil my knee, and Migual calm gives a biologiles.
Here he points to a rare Schouder.
Now he points to the mineral needs of the phytoplankton.
And here, here he sees a group spatracy that is thinking it to the Tanzanian giraft.
And it turns out that Migual of his career in the Mikumi National Park in the Mikumi National Park in Africa.
And I asked him how he has become an expert.
He said, "Vis? I don't know anything of fish.
I'm a relationships."
And then he talked so further about rare birds of birds and weird water plants.
Don't wrong, it was really fascinating, a kind of biological community.
It was great, but I was loved.
And my head silled with the cooked piece of the cooked piece of the night for the night.
So I said, "Migual him. I said, "Migual, how does it get your fish so well so well as your fish?"
He read to the algae.
"I know it, the guy, the algain, the phytoplankton, the relationships, it's great.
But whatever.
What is the food conversiero?"
And then he goes to me that it is such a rich system that the fishing system that the fish.
The plantary biomassa, the phytoplankton, the animal plankton, which is the fish.
The system is so healthy, it's completely self.
There is no feat.
As a farmer who don't feed her animals.
Later that day, I reach this terrain with Miguel and asked him, I said, "For a place that I said, "For a place so natural that I have ever been, "how do you measure, "how do you meas?"
At that moment, it was a movie record a setwo.
And we went to the corner and saw the most amazing, thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands and you could look at the point,
"That's success," he said, he said he saying.
"Look at their bugs, croze.
They're at the part."
Fest? I was totally confusion.
And I said, "Migual, are not at the fish?"
"Yeah!"
"We're talking about 20 percent of our fish and fish.
Last year this area had 600,000 birds of birds over 250 different kinds of things.
It's now the biggest and one of the most important private birds of birds in Europe."
I said, "Migual, is a bird population that it does not be the last thing you want to do about a fish?"
He shake his head no.
And he said, "We're extensive, not intensive, not intensive.
This is an ecological network.
The flamingos eat the shrimps.
The shrimp of eating the phytoplankton.
So the rozero, the behind the system."
Okay, let's just take a little bit of a thing,
And a far that are not worth animals, and a game that are success measured to the game of his hunters.
A fish, but also a bird of fish.
Oh, marries: that flamingos, who couldn't be here at all.
And they were in a village 250 kilometers, where the flodemconditions are better to build nest.
Every morning, they fly 250 kilometers to the front of soil.
And every night, they fly 250 kilometers.
They're doing that because they can be able to follow the highway from the faster A92.
No joke.
And I was a penguinmars, so I looked at Migual --
And I said, "Miguel, they fly 250 kilometers and then the avenon's 250 kilometer?
Do they do it?"
And he looked like I just looked like a Whitney Houstone of the quote.
He said, "No. They're doing that for the food better."
I don't like the skin of my loved fish. I don't like this was wonderful, and I don't like fish.
I love it. I love it. I love it up.
It's that wrange, teachers, teachers,
And I don't do it.
But then when I provide him in that restaurant in southern Spain that restaurant.
And he taken like you took a hap of the ocean out of the ocean.
And I said that to Miguel and he kned.
He said, "The skin works as a sponse.
It's the final defense before something the body.
He's evolved to southern on the souther."
And then he added "But our water has no water has no water has no souther."
Okay, OK. A fish.
And a front that his success measured success of his predators.
And then I realized that when he said, a foundly that no insouthern -- he made a big understatement, because it makes a big understatement because the water that comes out of the Guadalquier.
That's a river, that is a rivers that reversing rivers that rivers are neat, chemical definitions, pesticide recently.
And while it are away through the system and away it got inside the water then the water then the water then it came in,
And the system is so healthy that it is salth.
So not only a climb that are not just a single that are not just a single that are success measured to the health of his predator, but a kill, a freads that literally is a water iversince stallation.
And not just for those fish, but also for you and me.
Because if the water away the water away.
A drugs in the ocean, I know it, but I take it, and I supposed to do, because this love, although romantic, although romantic, although romantic, is also teacher.
You can say that it's a recipe for the future of good food, whether we talk about birds or runders.
What we needed is a radial new agricultural concept, one where the food actually takes the food actually take.
But for a lot of people is that a little too radical.
We're not realists, we are fine fine fine propers.
We are loves.
We love farmers' markets.
We love little family companies.
We talk about local food.
We eat organic.
And if you suggests that these things are the things that the future of food that the future of food is always someone on and says, "Do I love the world?
How do you get the world?"
Is I think it's hone?
I love that question.
No, not because we are producing more than enough calories to add the world.
One billion people leave today hungry.
One billion -- that's more than ever -- that's more than ever -- because of the great inequality is not the amount of distribution, not the amount of distribution,
I don't like this question because it's defined by the logics of our food system of the last 50 years.
And from the ground, pestics of reform, pestics to the monocultures, chemicals to fish, and the entire agribusiness has been asked, "If we feel more people chemicals -- "If we add more people cheat.
That's the motivation.
It's the justice. It's the justice.
It's the entrepreneur. It's the entrepreneur.
We ought to call it what it is, a entrepreneur, a entrepreneuration that quickly ecological capital undermine that production is possible.
That's not an entrepreneur and it's not an agriculture.
Our daily is threatened now not by the device, but by definition, but by the last combine, not by the last combine and tractor and tractorinvention, but by pump not by pump, but by clean by pump, but by clean up by the fisheres and neat, but by fish and neat the neat, but by fish.
Do you feed the world?
So let's start with the question is, how do we do do do ourselves?
Or better, how can we create conditions that every community can we feel conditions of itself?
To do that, don't look at the agribusiness model for the future.
It's old and it is aging and it is astone.
And it was a strong chemicals and machines, and machines, and it's never really good to eat.
Let's look at the ecological model of the ecological model.
That's the model that confidence on two billion years unthe-job experience.
Look at Migule, scene like Migual, sweaters that are not own world, freads that restoring instead of exhausting instead of exhausts that extensive intensive, but intensive to the relationships, because they are the relations, but in relations, because they are the experts in relationships.
And I am very fairly fairly fairly bough, they are a better block than I'm going to be.
You know, I think the primary, because if that the future of food is good food than it is the future of food than it is.
Thank you.
I grew up, on a constant diet of science fiction.
During the front of education, I went to school, a hour hour, a and hour hour, every day.
And I was always absorbed by a book, a science fiction book, a science book, which is in mind-mind worlds, and that, in exploration in stories sense, my inequivalent news and inevable curious curiosity.
And, you know, that curiosity is also ways in the fact that I was alwasting when I was not in the forest I was in the forest and "monsters and "monsters and collected, insects and snaks, and they looked up with the microscope.
You know, I was a real science.
But it all went to understand the world, the borders of the world, the borders of possible.
And my love for science fiction, seemed to be mirirror in the world to be him, because what happened, this was the end of the sea years, we went to the moon, we were the deep ocean -- we were the deep oceans, Jacques Cousteau Cousteau Cousteau -- Jacques that animals and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world, and a wonderful world,
This seemed to resonate with the whole science fiction of it.
And I was an artistic
I could draw. I could draw. I could draw.
And because there were no video games and this shell of CGfilms and all these images in the media landscape, I had to create these pictures in my head.
You know, that we had to do all that as a book and as a book and the basis of the description of the author something.
And my response, my responses, drawing aliens alien creatures, alien world, already creatures, already all that kind of things.
I was constantly constantly during mathematics behind my textbook.
And that was the creativity that was the creativity that was an extended to find a way.
And there was something interesting happened to the Jacques Cousteau programs, was very extremely extraordinarily that there was an alien world, just here on Earth.
And I wouldn't really go to a extraordinary world in a room in a spaceship.
That seemed pretty unlikely.
But that was a world that I could actually go and actually go here on Earth, which was so rich and exotic as rich and exotic as I had imagined by the reading of that books.
So I decided to be diving at 15 years.
And the only problem that I was lived in a little village in Canada -- 600 miles of the nearest ocean.
But I'm not going to let me not recently.
And I put my father until my father until he finally found a diverted in Buffalo, New York, just about the ground.
And I got my certified in a swimmble of a YMCA, in the middle of the winter, in Buffalo, New York.
And I saw the ocean, a real ocean, not to just two years later, when we moved to California.
Since then, in the forces 40 years, I have about 3,000 hours under water under water, and 500 hours under the water.
And I have learned that deep sea, and even the undeep oceans, and even the undeep oceans, so wealthy life that it really our imagination.
The imagination force of nature is so front of our constrainy -- the imaginative imaginations.
And to this day, I have big thing to see for what I seeing these divices.
And my my breaking love for the ocean is still as strong if she ever was ever as strong was as strong as she ever before.
But when I was a career a career was this filmmaker.
And that seemed the best way to do the neath that I had to have stories, to combine stories to my neath to create pictures.
And as a child I was always working with the drawings of comics and so on.
Films are making the way of images and stories. And that seemed together.
And of course, the stories that I choose bucking, science fiction -- "Terminator," "Terminator," "Aliens," and "The Abyss."
And with "The Abyss," I spent my love for underwater and dive for underwater and making films.
Say, the two passions combine combining.
Something interesting from "The Abyss," which was in "The Abyss" that to solve a specific problem in that film, the create of a kind of fluence water create and create a kind of fluence water -- that we generated computer generated animation, CG, omomomerated that we generated a specific story.
And this resulted in the first soft surface" character, CG animation, that had ever been put in a film.
And even despite that the movie never got money, it was nearly break break-ak break-a-equal of something particular, that was the audience, the global public, the global practical magic magic.
You know, it's Arthur Clarke's Clarke's laws, that every enough any enough advanced technology is not to distinguish.
They saw a magical.
And I was very excited about that.
And I thought, "Wow, this is something that needs to be surrounded in the filmber."
So, with "terminator 2"," which was my second film, which was my second film, we went out to this further further in the movie --
World with ILM, we created the liquid metal metal metal metal metal metals of that film. And the success of it would work.
And that did it. And we created again.
And we had the same result with the audience.
And all we deserve a little more money on that film.
So, to pull a line between those two points of experience, this is a whole new world, a whole new world, a whole new world of creativity for movity --
So I started a company with Stan Winston, my good friend Stan Winston, who was the make-up, and creature, and create designer in that time, and it was called Domain.
And the concept of the company was that we would make a jump, precisely the analog processes of optical printers and we would have directly directly directly to digital production the digital production of digital production.
And we did that we actually didness and the gave timate a competition.
But we found our ourselves behind the mid-year-olds in the creatures and characterdesign -- and characterdesign for company we had the company we had the company we originated the company that we had the business of the business.
So I wrote this piece called "Avatar," "Avatar," which was to explain absolutely to explain the visual effects of visual effects, of CG, with realistic human emotional characters in CG, and the world would all in CG, and the world would all in CG and the world in CGensing back and the world in CGents back back to CGents back back back and the world reach.
And I was told by the people in my business that we wouldn't be able to do this.
So I put it into the refrigerate, and I made that other film about a big scree of a big scree that sentence.
I sold it to the studio as "Romeo and Juliet" and Juliet" on a ship."
It's an epic romantic film.
And what I wanted to do was a real walk of the "Titanic."
And that's why I made the movie.
And that's the truth. Echter, the studio didn't know that that doesn't know that.
But I was convinced them, and I said, "We're going to take it to moving. We're going to really film.
We will use it in the opening of the film.
It will be very important. It's going to be an amazing high."
A I convinced them a expedition.
And it sounds the theme of your imaginative imagination that creates a reality.
Because we actually created a reality that I found a reality where I found six months later in a Russian undersea -- two and a half deep, two and a half deep, in the northern Atlantic ocean, looked at the real Tell ocean by a patter, not a patter, not a film, not a film, not a film, not not a film, but really, not a film,
And I was very disted from that.
And the regular a lot of prepartneras, and we had to develop cameras, and all kinds of things.
But it took me how many these dive dividing dive dive divids.
You know, there was very technical and the extremely huge planning.
You get in this dark in such this dark in this dark environment where there is no hope on saving a bunch of that if you can't get back to it.
And I thought, "Wow, it seems if I live in a science fiction film.
This is very cool.
And so, I had the taken of exploring the deep ocean.
Of course, the curiosity, the science component of it.
It was everything. It was a night. It was a curiosity. It was imagination, it was imagination, and it was an experience that Hollywood me.
Because you know, I could imagine an imagined and we could imagine, and we could be able to create a visual effect." But I couldn't imagine what I saw out of that window.
And we did some of our next expeditions I saw some of our next expeditions that I had never seen before, sometimes sometimes things that I had never seen before, sometimes sometimes that had never seen before, that didn't see, and not described by the science of science at the moment that we saw and they described them and they described.
So I was a following and I had to do anyway.
And so I made a weird decision.
After the success of "Titanic," I said, "OK, I said, "OK, I'm paying my job as Hollywood filmmaker, and I'm going to be a while,
And so we started planning these expeditions.
And we went to the Bismarket, and we explored the robotic vehicles.
We went back to the wrap of the Titanic.
We took little "collision, that we had created with that glass glassell.
And the idea was to go to inside and an interior -- research of that ship, which was never done before.
No one had ever looked in the wood, they didn't have the resources to do it, so we developed technology to do it.
So, here I am at the case of the Titanic, in a submarineanic, and look at outside and look at outside and look at outside that seems lots of this one, where I knew that the band had played the band had playing that the band
And I decided a little robotic vehicle by the way,
And when I say that I think I was going to be consciousness in the vehicle I felt as if I was physically a physical physical catch of the Titanic.
And it was the most surremarkable kind of dejavu-experience that I ever had ever -- because I had to have already what would be there for the vehicle of the vehicle of the vehicle long showed the movie showed when we were open the film when we were making the film when we were able to make the film at the movie.
And the set was an exactly replica on the blueprints of the ship based on the ship basket.
So the absolutely notice that was absolutely remarkable experience.
And it did me realize that the telepresence that the telepresence that you can actually have this kind of robotic avatars, where you can be injected in the vehicles of existence.
And it was really pretty close to deep.
And probably a little bit of a look at what could happen, what decauses decade as cyborgood to be available for exploration or another, in many species of post-human future, which I can imagine imagine, which I can imagine as a science.
So, these expeditions and really beginning and really starting to apply what was there was there as the deep ocean resources that we had this wonderful wonderful wonderful wonderful animals.
They're practical extraordinary creatures on Earth.
They live in a environmental of chemosynthesese.
They don't live in a sunlight based system like we do that.
And so you see animals that lives next 500 degrees Celcius heat plumes.
You could think that they can be able to exist.
And at the same time, I was also again a very interested in space science, again space science, again, the science, again science, again, the science fiction influence as a child.
And I got involved in the space community, very involved in NASA, part of NASA, participants to the NASA advies: actual space missions -- I went to Russia, I went to Russia, biomedic protocols and all that kind of things, to actually go to the international space with our systems.
And this was fascinating.
But what the final result that I was going to be a space scientists with our deep.
And they take access so they had access to astrobiologists, planetetary scientists, people who were interested in that extreme environmend to the sources and they look at the resources and taking them to the sources and so forth.
So, here we were documentary films to do but actually make it also create science to documentary films -- and actually actually space science to do.
I had made the circle around from the science fiction fan, you know, as a child, you know, as a child and all do this.
And you know, during this journey, I learned a lot of it.
I learned a lot about science. But I also learned a lot about leadership.
Now you think that a record to be a leader of a leader, leader of the ship and that kind of things.
I didn't really learn about leadership until I did expeditions.
Because I had to say at a certain point, "What do I do this?
Why do I do this? What do I win it?"
We deserve no money with these disappear.
They're pretty break-eving. There is no fame with it.
People think that I'm going to be away between "Titanic" and "Avatar" and "Avatar" and I turned out to the beach.
I made all these films, all these films, all these documentary for a very restrict.
No far, no glory, no money. Where are you mean?
You do it for the work itself, for the challenge, and the ocean is the most challenging environment that is there is a little band exploration as a small group of people a small group of people a small group of people a team.
Because we did all these things with 10-10-12 people working for year.
Sometimate to sea for 2-3 months.
And by that band, you realize that the most important thing is the respect thing that you have to have a task for you, that you can't explain a task that you can't explain someone else.
When you get back to wonder and you say, "We had to do this and you say, "We had to do this and the demp, and the demp, and the demp, all the technology and the difficult of working on sea, that thing to the sea, that thing to be able to people. And it's that thing that thing can have to be able to people. It's that thing is that if people have it could never explain it together.
It creates a band, creates a band creates a respect.
So when I came back to make my next film, which "Avatar," I was trying to do that same principle of leadership, which is that your team respect and you make your team and you make your team respect.
And that changed the dynamic.
So, I was against a little team, in a team, in the map terrain, "Avatar, "Avatar" to make new technology that hasn't existed before.
Enorm exciting.
Enorm challenging challenged.
And we were a family, for a family, four a period of four and a half years.
And it changed how I make films.
So, people gave commentary on how you saying, the ocean organisms back and put them on the planet and put it on the planet Pandora --
For me, it was a fundamental way of doing things, the process itself, which changed as result of that changed.
So, what can we synthesization?
You know, what are the learned less?
Well, I think is a curiosity.
It's the powerful thing you do.
Imagination is a force that can manifest a reality.
And the respect of your team is more important than all the team of the world.
There are young filmmakers that come to me and say, "Give me some advice to do."
And I say, "Lay don't go to a restraints.
Other people are going to do that for yourself.
And you take risk of risks."
NASA has said that they were like to say, "Mislucking is not an option."
But crize, a must be an option in arts and discovery, because it is a judge in the deep.
And not a single entrepreneuration that innovation is done without risk.
You've got to be willing to take those risk to take those risks
And that is the thought I would like to leave you, that in whatever you do, that in whatever you do, but fear. Thank you.
If I give you one of the idea of a big idea of the data that we use is that it is very much of the data that we use is bigger than the parts.
And instead of the information, I want to think about how we can use information to figure out how to use information and trends that would stay included.
This is a typical mortality of degraphic degree for age.
The tool I use here is an experiment.
It's called Pivot. Pivot, I can filter filtering on one certain death, for example, for example.
I can see an immediately another pattern.
That's because here in the middle of people are the most active, and there it is vulners.
And we can step outside and reorganizing the data reorganizing reorganizing the data.
And we see that heart diseases and cancer the usual found, but not for everyone.
And if we go and filtering on the age of 40 years, for 40 years or young -- we see that includes are the biggest cause.
If you dive in deeper there is that especially for man.
You can see what I mean: like this way to see information looks like swimming in a living infographic.
If we can do this with rude data, why not also don't do with intenure?
And what we have here is the front page of every number of Sports Illustrated that ever has ever been made it.
Everything is here. It's all on the now.
You can go to your room and you can go and try and go after my talk.
With Pivot you can zoom in a decade.
You can zoom in a certain year.
You can go to a particular number of number of number of number
I look at this thing. I see the athletes that are shifting in this number, the sports.
I'm fan from Lance Armstrong, so forward, so forward, and that gives me all the numbers that Lance Armstrong in additions.
And if I just want to look at here, I think, "Why don't don't all the wheels,
I do a step back and go back and go into that.
Now I see Greg Lemond.
You can see that if you read through information, you don't see the information of the information and won't be able to look for it, you don't find a little bit of the blaunch, you don't get a little bit of information,
You do something that is a little different.
It's a sense, and we think that it changes how you can use information.
So I want to go on the other hand, a little bit bit of a little bit of it.
Here we have been taken every page of Wikipedia and they rested to a small society.
The collaboration is a little synopsis and an icoonth to give it the contribubuting top.
I just show only the top 500 popular Wikipedias.
But even in this limited disable, we can do.
We get an idea of the subject of the subjects that are the popular on Wikipedia.
I'm going to go beyond and government.
Now I have government, I see that the Wikipedia-categories that the Wikipedia that the following magazine magazine magazine.
This is very important because this insight in the apart Wikipedia-pages.
You can only get it through a step back and look at them all and look at them all too look at it.
If I look at one of these collabors I can deep deeper to the deeper Time magazine Person of the year.
A look at all these people teaches me that the majority of politics.
Some of the natural sciences.
A smaller number of the business world.
There is my base.
You get out of the music world,
What's interesting is that Bono also a TED Prize-wine.
So we can jump to all the TED Prize winners.
So we had the first time by the web as though it is really a web, not from page to page page page to page page at a higher abstractivity.
I want to show you one other thing that you might astone.
I'm going to show the website of the New York Times.
Pivot, this application -- I don't want to call it a browser, it's actually not browser, but you can see webpages -- and we bring this magnificant technology to every webpage page.
I'm going to leave a step back and jump, right back in a specific section.
And the reason this is important is that I can just look at webpage so I can look at my whole brow-se-history in the same way.
And I can look at deeper in what I've done in certain perios.
Here's the status of the demo I just spent just this.
I can play things that I looked like today today,
And if I put a step back and everything, I can look at my historics maybe my historic.
Here I did some nepotistic research, I was looking for Bing, and here Labs Pivot.
Of course, I can take deeper on the page of page and re-launch,
It's one metaphor that phors again, and every time it makes it very bigger than the parts of the data.
And today, in our world, we see data as a fluence.
We're talking about the liquid of information.
We're talking about.
And if we were able to put that on his heads, and the web on the web on the web on the next thing to the next thing to the next one, we can go from many things to many things to go from many things to many things, and the patterns that would be hidden.
If we can, we are not fast in that, we can't be able to do it perhaps.
Instead of only with information, we can be able to get out of it.
If we have knowledge, maybe even wisdom.
I thank you very much.
Everybody speaks today about happiness.
I have someone the number of books that the youngest five years with "happiness in the title and he has given it up after about 40, and there were a lot more more.
There is a lot of importance for happiness, in researchers.
There is a lot of happiness.
Everybody wants to make people happier.
But despite that mass that mass there are different cognitive values that make it so what impossible to think about happiness.
And I'm going to have this today about that cognitive values.
And this is for ordinary people who think about their own happiness, and it researchers that thinking about happiness, because it turns out that we are as in the car, as it turns out that as all the others.
The first fall-coil is the narrative to give complexity.
And it turns out that the word happiness just not useful word for too much.
And I think that there is one certain meaning that we might be able to consider it to consider this is something that we will have to give up and we will have to reach the more complicated vision of some of well.
The second fall is the confusion between experience and memory and memory that is the difference between happy in your life, and his happy in your life or his life or his life.
And those are two totally different things that are going to be thrown in the concept "happines."
And the third focus and the illusion of focus and the unhappy fact that we can't think about a conditions that impact on our well.
I mean, this is really a cognitive value.
There is no way to get this.
Now, I would like to start with an example of someone who was a question of someone who was a question and answers a story.
And this was the story.
He said he said that he had been listening to a symphony, and it was absolutely fantastic music and at the end of the recording of the record of the record sound.
And then he said, really completely engineered that this was the whole experience.
But that's not right.
It had the reminds. It had the reminds of the experience.
He had the experience.
He had fantastic music music music music.
These were not worth because he was reminded with a remind remember, the rememberation was remember, and the remind was already what he had had to keep it.
And what this is that we could see is that we could see ourselves and others as two persons.
There is a experience, which lives in the hot and knows, which is able to be able to re-past past. But it has only been in order only the past has only been able to be in the past.
The doctor direct our experience I -- you know, if the doctor, "Does it says, "Does it now pain if I touch you?"
And then there's the remember I remembering is the one that that is going to hold the story of our lives and the story of our lives, and that is the person who the doctor, and that is the person who the doctor.
or "How was you travel to Albania, or anything.
Those are two very different things, and the experience I remember and the confusion between both is part of the the mazing of the understanding of the understanding happiness.
The remember I is a storyteller.
And that starts to really starts with a fundamental reminds. It starts -- it starts immediately starts -- it starts immediately starts with a fundamental reminds.
We're not just tell stories when we add us to tell stories.
Our memory tells us story, which is to say, what we can be able to say, what we can be able to say.
And let me start with one example of one example --
This is an old research.
These are real patients that a painful ingreet.
I spent you the details. This is not painful anymore, but it was painful when this research walked in the '90s.
They had to be reported every 60 seconds of their pain every 60 seconds
And these are two patients.
These are their reports of their report.
And there is "Who of them, "Who of them,
And that's a very easy question.
It's clearly that patient, B has had been highly more pain
His colonoscopy has longer, and for every minute patient, and for every minute patient that patient patient, and more.
But here is another question is, how many pain these patients that they had these patients,
And what a surprising: The surprise is that patient, A much worse remind to the colonoscopy has patient.
And the stories of the colonoscopies because a very important part of the story -- and not one of these stories -- and no one of these stories are very inspiring or copies -- but one of them is certain -- but one of them is certain worse.
And the worse story is the story in which the pain the end of pain at the end.
That's a quality story.
How do we know that? Because we asked these people after their colonoscopy, and much later, "How was the whole state was the entire allowing?"
and it was much worse for B, in their remind.
Well, this is a direct conflict between the experience and remember the experience and remember it remember the experience.
From the point of view of the experience I got B clearly sworth of it,
Well, what you could do with patient, A, and we actually have clinical trials, and it really happened, and it was happening, and it was happening, and it works, you would be the colonoscopy of patient.
And that causes the patient, but not mutilate, but not much, and much less than before.
And if you have that a few minutes you have it for the experience I work, and you made it a lot of worse, and you remember it for patient, and you remember a much better because you have given a lot better story about his experience.
What is a story?
And that is where for the stories that supply the memory, and it's also true for the stories that we excited.
What a story is determines are changes, important moments and end.
Eindes are very, very important and in this case, the end was the end.
Well, the experiencing I live his life continuout.
It has moments of experience, one after the other.
And you say, what happens with this moments?
And the answer is really simple.
They're always lost. They're lost.
I mean, most of the moments of our lives -- I explored -- you know, you know, the psychological heds about three minutes.
That means, you know, in a life you have about 600 million
In a month there are about 600,000.
Most of them don't leave it.
On the most of them is not spending by remind by reminding the remind.
And yet you get the impressure that they should have to be from text, that what happens to be from textile of this experience moments of life.
It's the end solids that we use on Earth.
And how you use it to be relevant to be relevant to remember that it doesn't remember the story that it doesn't remember.
So we remembering and I experience and I experience and that are really different.
The largest difference between both is in the end.
From the point of view of the experience I have a vachance, and the second week as the first week is the first one is the vachance of two weeks as well as the vachance of one weeks as well as the vacation of one weeks.
It doesn't works for the remind.
For the remind is a two weeks of two weeks, there's a two weeks, better than the vacation of one week because there are no new reminds.
You don't have the story.
And in that way is actually the critical variable that a remembering I did.
Time has very few impact on this story.
It remembering I do remind and stories.
It's the person that decisions, if you have a patient, if you have a patient, you know, two colonoscopies had a patient, two colonoscopions and have to decide which he will sell with the least reminds that he will be able to the least reminds and that is the surgeon that he's going to take cover and surgeons.
And the experience I have no voice in this choice.
We don't choose between experiences.
We choose between remembers of experience. And even if we don't think about the future than we don't think of our future as we don't think of our future as experience.
We think about our future as a geanticipeated memories.
And you can actually look at this point as a dictation of the remind I remember it remember and you can remember the experience I think as a little bit of the experiencing I need it to take the experiencing of the experiencing of the experiencing that if we go to the experience that if we go to the service.
And that's pretty hard to responsibilities.
I mean, how often do we use our remember?
That's one of the explanations that are given for the dominance of the dominance of remembering for the dominance of the dominance of the dominance of the dominance of remember I remember remember.
And if I think about that, I think about a vachance that we had a few years ago in Antarctica few years ago, which was clearly our best vachance, and I think about it was a lot of compartment.
And I probably have my remind to the remind of three weeks for about 25 minutes the last four years.
Now, if I had been shown the map of 600 pictures in, then I would have an hour.
So these are three weeks, and that's almost a hour.
There seems to be a discrepance.
Now, maybe I'm a little extremely -- you know, in the limited hunger that I have reminded to use remind rememberations, but even if you do that is hammaking so much to remind so much to remember so much importance that we have to experience?
So I want you to think about a mind experiment.
Imagine you know on your next vacation is that at the end of the vacation of the photographs will be destroy and you get a pill, and you have a pill.
Would you choose the same vachance? And if you choose a different vacation between your two job.
and you have to think about how to solve that conflict.
And that's not so obvious because if you think of time you get one particular a particular answer.
And if you think in terms of reminds of remind answer.
Why we choose the vasize that we choose choose is a question that confronted us with a choice.
Now, the two decades to two notions of happiness.
There are really two shapes of happiness that we can apply -- one per me.
So you can ask question: how happy is the experience?
And then you would you say, "How happy are the moments in life of the experience?
And they're all happiness -- the happiness of moments is a rather complicated process.
What are the emotions that can be measure?
And by the way, we are today, we are able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the happiness I got him.
If you ask to the happiness of remembering is that a totally different case.
This is not about happy anybody lives happy anybody lies.
It's about how much peace or following the person is like that thinking about her life.
Ttal different concept.
Everybody who's concepts on one hope will be a heart of the study of the study of the study of the things that have been made a group of students that have made for a group of the study of the study of the study of the study.
And the distinction between the happiness and the enough I remember is reminded and the enough I'm recent to measured the two separate of measurements to measure the Gallup doing a global peile in which over half a million people in the world in order to measure.
And there are more inspent in that sense,
So the last years, we begin to reject insight in the happiness.
And the main lesson that we have learned from each other.
You can know how much peace someone with his life is and that you really learn about how happy he lead his life and reversed his lifetime.
Just to give you an idea of the correlation, the correlation, the correlation is about 0.5.
That means that if you should meet someone and you would say that his father a meter tapous how much would you know about his length -- how much would you know about his leng?
You would know something about his length, but there's a lot of uncertainty.
And so much uncertainty of the way that somebody that somebody has been given a thing, at 10, you have a lot of 10, you've got a lot of uncertainty about how happy they're about their experience.
So the correlation is weak.
We know something about what the peace of the experience.
We know that money is very important.
We know that happiness especially means that we are totally with people that we were possible by bringing time to people that we had to do with people that we had to be able to do with people that we had to be to.
There are other enough, but this weeks.
So if you want to make the happiness of the two crowds that you can make it look very different things.
And the conclusion of what I've said here is that we wouldn't be happiness as a substitute.
It's a completely different concept.
And then very quickly -- a different reason we can't think of happiness about happiness is that we can't think that we don't think about life if we think about life and if we think about life and if we think about life.
So if you ask the simple question of how happy people in California will not get the right answer.
If you question that people have to be happier in California as you live in California as you live in the California,
And what happens is if you think about life in California, you think about the contrast between California, and other places and other places and the contrast between California, and then for example, in the climate.
And it turns out that the climate is not so important for the experiencing I decided I decided that decided how happy people are.
But because it thinks that I think it could be able to return that some people to California -- that some people to California.
And it is interesting to go and go and go to California to people who are moving to California in the hope happier.
Well, their experience won't be happier.
That's what we know.
But one thing happens to be happier because if they're happier, because if they think about it will be reminded how terrible it was reminded how terrible it was back in Ohio.
And they're going to think that they have the right decision.
It's very difficult to think about well, and I hope that I hope that I've given a idea of how possible.
Thank you.
Chris Anderson: Thank you. I have a question for you.
Thank you very much.
When we told a couple of weeks ago, you told me that there was a very interesting invention from that Gallup-peiling.
Can you share this with our short a couple of minute?
Daniel Kahneman: I think it's most interesting result of the Gallup-peile from the Gallup-peile is that we didn't expect absolutely --
It has to do with the happiness of the experience.
And if we look at how feelings differences --
And it turns out that income from 60,000 dollars a year, for Americans, and then it goes over a whole big group of Americans, so what 600,000, a big representation, with an income under the 600,000 dollars a year.
CA: 60,000 DK: 60,000 dollars a year, then people are unhappy, and they become happiness, and they are become unhappier as they get armer.
We see a completely flake.
I mean, I mean, I have seen such such lines.
It's clearly, what happens is that money is that money not bringing happiness but that a lack of money, but that a lack of money and we can make that miserable to measure that telling with great, great precision.
For the other I remember the remind me, you get a very different story.
And the more money you deserve to deserve you know.
It doesn't believe for emotions.
CA: But Danny, the entire American freedom.
If people who are taking results like the results of this seems to be everything like to put what we believe about, you know, fiscal policy and so on.
Is there a chance that politicians, that the country in the general result in the general result would take severe and opened the policy?
DK: You know, I think that there is recognize of the role of happiness.
And that recognizes will come in the United States, which doesn't walk out of the United Kings -- but in the U.K.
People recognize that they should think about happiness if they think about public policy.
It's going to take a time and people will debattering about the question if they want to study whether they want to study or the evaluation of life so we'll have to do that debate.
And how we can increase increase increase dependent on how you think of how you think about the remember I whether you think about the experience.
This is going to affect policy in the next years, I think,
In the United States are being done to measure the experience happiness of the population.
And I think that will be a year or 20, a year or 20,
CA: Well, it seems to me that this subject is the interesting policy to follow or should be the next few years.
Thank you very much thank you for your invention of the nehavioral economics.
Thank you, Danny Kahneman.
I'm going to talk about energy and climate.
And that may seem a little surprisingly, because my full-time work in the foundation is about vaccines, the things that we need to invention and supply the poorest two billion people.
But energy and climate is extremely important for these people, in fact, more important than to this planet.
The climate climate so that their climates are not going to grow.
There will be too much rain fall, or too much raint.
Things are going to change so their vulnerable environmental to just anymore.
And that leads to hungry. It leads to uncertainty.
So the climate change.
The price of energy is extremely important for them.
In fact, if you could only take one thing to make cheap cheaper, to make the poverty, you would be able to reduce the poverty.
The energy price is silent price is silence.
Remember, avanced civilization is based on the advances in energy.
The coal-carbon revolution, and the industrial revolution, and even in the 20th century, there was a very quickly, there was a very quick price to electricity, and so many axen, airconditional materials and so many things.
And we have a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world.
Now, we make the cheaper -- and let's make it two times so cheaper -- then there's a new constraination, and that has to do with CO2.
CO2 leads to the warms of the planet, and the equation of CO2 is actually a very simple thing.
And if you count: the CO2 that is being extincluding to a temperature, and that temperature, and that temperature, and the temperature.
And the effects of the effects of it, maybe the indirect effects, that the natural ecosystems can't adapted to these rapid changes, and so you get ecosystems that instories.
Now, the exact amount of how to do a particular increasingly increasingly from CO2 to which temperatures are going to go and copy the positive back, which is only uncertainty, but not very much.
And there is certainly uncertainty about how very the consequences, but they will be very severe.
I have been asking this often to top-scientists.
We have to come up with zero?
Can we don't take the half or a quarter of head?
And the answer is that, until we get in the neighborhood, the temperature.
So that's a big challenge.
So for example, for example, a four meters high a bridge of 3.6 meters are trying to be able to get to it.
This is something that to zero.
Now, we have a lot of CO2 years.
For every American is about 20 ton.
For people in poor countries it's less than one ton.
It's a average of about five tons for everyone on the planet.
And we had to do anyways, things to change that to zero.
It's constantly constantly up.
One of the economic changes have a little bit of a rap, so we need to increase from a rapid of a pace of a package, and a dealt at zero.
This equation has four factors.
A little multiply multiply to be a little multiply multiply.
So, you have something to the left side, CO2, that you want to bring to zero-based on the number of people, the average use of services per person, the average use of service, and the average to every services and the CO2 a energy units.
So, let's see this piece for piece and see how we can get this to zero.
Probably one of these values in the neighborhood.
That's a high school mathematics, but let's take a look.
First of all, we have the population.
Now, the world today, 6.8 billion people.
That's the styes of the increase to about nine billion.
So, if we really do it with new vaccins, healthcare, healthcare, reproductive health care, then we could reduce that measures measures, 10 or 15 percent, but we see a stye of about 13.
The second factor is the services that we use.
This contains everything, the food that we eat all eating, tished.
These are very good things, and the away from poverty of these services of services to almost everyone on the planet.
So it's great as this number.
In the rich world, perhaps the top one billion, we can probably inflect and the consume and the consuming lessons, but year is going to take average, and so on average, and so on the average, and totally the services.
So here we have a very simple service.
Have your lighting in your home to read your homework, fact to read your homework, and they read their homework under the lunder the lunder the country,
So, efficiency, E, the energy for every service.
Einally, we have good news.
We don't have something that is not stying.
And Via diverse inventions and new ways of enlightenation, through other ways of building and new ways of building --
And there are a lot of services where you need to reduce the energy that can be lots of the energy.
Some individual services, even with 90 percent.
There are other services, like how we are producing whether or how we do with airverage that space for improvement is much smaller.
And so, if we are optimistic, we can reduce a factor three to them, a factor, a factor six six to them, a factor.
But for these first factors we are 26 billion year, on his best, 13 billion -- 13 billion and that's just not enough.
So let's look at this fourth factor -- this will be a certain -- and that's the CO2 a energy equipment per energy units.
So the question is, can you get that to zer?
And if you are stook, no.
If you get the gas you stook, no.
Frich, every way that we produced the day, electricity, except the emerging sustainable energy and nuclear energy and nuclear power and nuclear energy, produces CO2.
And what we need to do in global scale, is creating a new system.
So we need energy amazing.
So, if I wonder in the term of the term I don't do something that is impossible.
The microprocessor is an amazor is an amazing --
The Internet and the services are a wonder.
So, the people here have contributed to create many wonders.
Normaliter we have no deadline, when you have to have a certain date.
You just waiting it sometimes you get it, sometimes it doesn't happen.
And this is a lot that we have to actually pull speed on full speed and a win a stream.
Now I thought, how can I really really, really refrigerat?
Is there a kind of natural illustration, a demonstration, a demonstration that speaks to the imagination.
I was thought back to a year ago, when I was mosquito and somehow that was a way that supposed that fun.
And it actually made it involved in the idea that there are people who live with mosquitos.
So, with energy, this was the only thing I could think of it.
I decided I decided flourishing the environmental here this year.
So here we have a little bit of natural fireflies.
My told that they're not particular, they're not going to leave this pot.
So, there are all kinds of gimmick-like solutions like this, but they don't really such a lot of things.
We need solutions that we need a or major, on an incredible scale and an incredible scale, and of an incredible conibly enable, although people in many directions, I see there is only five that can supply a behavior.
And then I let forces, geothermic energy, nuclear energy, biobrands out there.
And maybe something to be able to wear and if they expect it I expect to be better than I expect to be working on every one of these five and we can't be work on every one of these five and we can't get any one of these five and we can't get their own own own own very difficult difficult to be able to be more important difficult to be able to be able to carry a better than I think that it is so unfar to be able to make that
Let's look at the fossil fuels, or burning first burning of stead, or burning coal or burning coal or burn.
And what you have to do, maybe it's not simple, but that's not not not a matter of it.
You have to take all the CO2 burns and make it keeps and make it happiness, and make it keeps and held that it stays there.
Now there are some of the subjects that level of 60 to 80 percent to 80 percent to 80 percent -- but it's going to be very hard and determine that CO2 is all very hard and all that CO2 is also very hard to be very hard to be very difficult terming problem.
Who supply will know?
Who going to be going to be able to be able to be bigger than which is that kind of literally, you can also think of the waste of nuclear or other things?
This is an enormous volume.
So that's being hard.
The next one is nuclear energy.
Also we have three major problems.
And the costs, with name in strong countries, his high.
The issue of the safety of safety that nothing can go wrong, while you can have this human operators, that the split can't be used to nuclear weapons.
And what do you do with the way?
And, although it's not so much worries about it.
You have to have a good feeling about it.
So three very difficult problems that might be solvable and needs to be working on the way to be working on it.
And the last three of the five, I grew the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three three of the last three three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three of the last three
These are some people often call the renewable sources.
And that -- although it is that they don't required -- yet a couple of a couple of couple of a couple of things.
One is that the density of the energy of the energy through these technologies are both incredible than the electricity.
And this is energibilities and you have it over many square kilometers, thousands of miles and more space than you need for a normal energy centers,
Also this is intermitting sources.
The sun is not suns the whole days, and not just the sun every day, not alway.
And so, if you dependent of these sources of sources that periods that periods that periods that they are not available.
So, we have big cost-challenges here.
We have transport challenges.
For example, this energy source outside of your country and you need not only the technology is not just the technology, but you have to do with the risk of the energy from the energy from the energy of the energy from the energy of the energy from the energy of the energy source of the energy source of the energy source of the energy source of the energy source of the energy from the source of the energy from the source of the energy source of the energy.
And, finally, the problem of problem.
And to make that visible, I looked at all kinds of batteries that are made getting out of the cars, for phones, for phone, for phones, for phones, for phone, and the amount of celeectrical energy that the world, and what I felt is that all the battery that all the battery that we can beat less than 10 minutes of all energy that is that all the battery of energy.
So we need a big breakthrough here is a big breakthrough, a hundred better than the approach that we have now.
It's not impossible, but it's not easy.
And this is important if you try to get that unreliable source higher than 20 to 30 percent of what you use.
If you know for 100percent on it.
Now, how are we going to find advance: what is the right approach.
Is it a Manhattan project? How can we achieve this?
Well, we need a lot of companies that work, hundreds of hundred.
In each of these five pads, at least hundred people.
And a lot of them, you'll find that. That's good. That's good.
And, I think that here in the TED group, we have a lot of people who are already purpose this already for it.
Bill Gross has different companies, which has a called eSolar who has great thermal thermical solar technologies.
Vinod Khosla invests in 10 companies companies that are doing things and interesting possibilities, and I have to support that.
Nathan Myhrvold and I use a company that, maybe surprisingly, nuclear energy.
There are some innovations in nuclear, modules, and liquid and liquid of nuclear power.
And there is no innovation in this industry in this industry in this industry, so it's not so strange that there are good ideas.
The idea of Terrapower is that, instead of just a small part uranium, which is one percent, which U-235, we decided to use the 999, we decided to use the 99999.
A little strange idea.
You have ever been talking about, but they couldn't simulate whether it's going to work.
But through the comst of supercomputers can now, and you have today.
With the right materials will probably work.
And because you use the 999 percent are reducing the cost enormously.
You use it -- you can use the waste and as fuel you can use all the survival reactors.
So instead of care, supply that new fuel of burning care, that's great!
It uses this uranium duranium response. It looks like a map.
You can see in this animation, often it becomes a "freactor reactor reactor.
For the fuel of the fuel is really the solution.
I have a picture of a place in Kentucky.
This is nuclear waste is the 99 percent, where the 10.
So it's called uranium.
That's enough for hundreds of years.
And by a cheap way seawater, you get enough, you get enough, you get enough burning for the whole planet.
So, there's a lot of challenges for the future, but it's an example of the many hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of ideas that we need to go forward.
So let's think how do we measured ourselves?
How must report to look at it?
Let's look at first where we need to come out, and then go to the way.
For 2050, speaking many people about 80 percent reduction.
And it's really important to get that.
And that 20 percent will be used by poor agricultural agriculture.
And hopefully we have clean forest and cement.
So, to get those 80 percent have to developed countries, including countries like China, their electricity production -- their electricity.
And the other dist: Passes we extend to all the developed technology in all developed countries, and we are introduce?
That's super important.
That's a major measure for that report.
So, how do it must be report for 202020,
Well, it must be following two eises.
We have to reduce that efficiency the excitement of the excited.
And the less we excited, the harner the CO2 gets and so the temperature.
But in some ways, the decades that we care that we pulled by doing things that don't bring us to the great flaws, only event, or maybe even less important than the other, that is the piece of innovation on this brackages.
And this speeding, we have to speed, and we can measure that measured in terms of business, regular things that changed.
Here's a big number of beautiful books about it.
The book of Al Gore, "Our Keuic," and the book of David McKay book, "Duurzame Energy is under the hot air."
They're really good and they put a cader that this can be decided that this can be decided to be decided to get a browl.
There is a lot of that has to come together.
So this is a wish.
It's a very concrete wishs that we invented these technology technology.
If you gave me one wish for the next 50 years, I could choose who was president, I could choose a vaccine, I could cooking of something that I could like something that was invented with the costs, without half of the costs, without the costs I could care the wish.
This is the one with the largest impact.
If we don't get this wish, the guiding between the people who think on short run, and the long term will be horrible between the U.S. and China, between poor and China, between poor and driving the lives of those two billion lions of those two billion of lives are going to be much worse.
So, what do we need to do?
What do I ask you?
We have to go for more funding of research.
If countries come together in places like Copenhas, they don't just talk about the CO2.
They need to speak this innovation agency, and you supposed to this innovative approaches to this innovative approach to this innovative approach.
We need market, CO2-tax tax tax taxes and treatment, something that the costs.
We need to extract the message.
This dialalogue has to be understanding and understanding the government.
This is a major wish, but I think we can achieve it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Chris Anderson: Thank you.
Thank you very much. Now I understand more about Terrapower, okay -- I mean, the first picture, you can give you a sense of the investment?
Bill Gates: To do only the software the supercomputer, all the major scientists, all the great scientists inhurt and even though we have done and even though we test our materials in a Russian reactor to be there in a Russian reactor that our materials are going to work out there in the hundreds of millions of millions of of millions of and cope.
The hard becomes the conconstruction of the experimental reactor, finding the few billion, and finding the couple of the regulator, the site to build such a first decreate.
Once you have the first built, as this works like advertising as conted, then it is just considerable, because the economy, the energy density, the energy as different than nuclear energy as different than nuclear energy as we know it.
CA: And yeah, to understand it, it's about building deep under the ground deep under the ground of nearly fuel of nuclear fuel of nuclear fuel of consumer uranium, and then it starts to the process and then it turns out to the solide and then it works and then it goes down to the solid down?
BG: That's right. Today, the reactor counters, so you've got to be reactor phone, so you have a lot of people and many of the control that thing you have to open and stuff in and all of it.
That's not good.
So, if you have a very cheap fuel that you can include 60 years, you think of it as a background process -- they don't have that complexity.
And it just just a little year, and it burns year, and then it has done --
CA: It's a nuclear centrale, who solved his own waste problem.
BG: Yeah. Well, what happens with the waste -- there's a lot less waste -- there's a lot less waste with this approach -- or you can actually take it away with this approach -- and you can actually take it away it there.
And we're starting to make the waste that exists today, that is in the reactor or or or is takes in the reactor or has been taken up in the reactor or is takes in the reactor or is taken up in the reactor or is taken in the reactor or is taken up in the reactor or or is taken up in the reactor is taken up.
That's our fuel to start.
So, what a problem was from these reactors is actually what is introduced in the unit, and you reduce the volume of the response, and you reduce the process.
CA: But in your global conversations about these possibilities, which is most interested to do anything.
BG: Well, we have no particular place, and there are no particular place, and there are all everywhatever else has an interesting rules about everything else called the nuclear important, so we enjoy; that people have been from the company in Russia, China.
I have the state secretaris of energy about this, to talk about this, to talk about how this past in the energy agenda.
So I'm optimistic. You know that the French and the Japanese and the Japanese --
This is a variant on something that's been done already of something that's been done
It's a big step forward, but it's like a quick reactor, and a lot of countries they built everyone who has been built a quick reactor is an potential candidate to build the first thing to build the first thing to build the first thing.
CA: So, in your mind, away-scema and probability of something like this to get to the high now?
BG: Well, we have such for such electricity of electricity in big scale things that are very cheap, we need 20 years, we have to think about 20 years, and then 20 years.
That's a kind of term that the environmental models that we have to be taught.
And, you know, Terrapower, as everything wells, which is that many people wish.
And there are now, happy doing, we need hundreds of it, we need hundreds of them -- who, indials their research, as the financiation for their proinstallations.
And it is the best if there are multiple because then you can use of a mix of these things.
We need at least one to sleep.
CA: In terms of possible changes on great scale, is this the biggest that you know?
BG: A energy breakthrough is the very important.
And that would have been that even without the environmental limitation, but the environmental constrainy is so much bigger.
In the nuclear sector are also other innoves.
You know, we don't know their work as well as well, but the modular people, but the modular people, which is another approach approach.
There is a type of fluid reactor, which seems a little bit hard like this.
So there are different, but the beauty of this is an uraniummolecule has a million times energy as much energy as many energy as much as a carbon molecule, and so if you can deal with the negative effects, which are the radiation, the footprint and the costs, the opportunities, the possibilities, the opportunities, the opportunities, in the class of apart.
CA: If this is not working, what is this?
Do we begin with the regular measurements to try to keep the temperature?
BG: If you get overweather in that situation, it's as though you have overweight, and the point to get a heart attack.
Where are you going to take a hartop, or something.
There is a line of research called geo-engineering -- that his different techniques that the heats warming the solution that we buy for 20 or 30 years.
That's just a kind of resurance.
You hope you don't need that.
Some people say that you don't even have to work on such a confidence because it may be eating amazing because you know that there is a hartoper to save you.
I don't know whether that consistent is the importance of the problem, but there's now the geo-engineering discussion to discussion, that has to happen, or the innovation faster, or as the innovation is going to happen, or as the innovation is going to be expected.
CA: Klimaat skeptics -- if you could say a or two sentences to them?
BG: Well, unfortunately come out of different cootics of different camps.
There are very few arguments. There are very few arguments.
Are they going to have negative feedback effects that are impact with the clouds.
There are very, very few things that they can still be able to job there is a chance of one million that they can be able to event.
The main problem that we have is like AIDS.
You make the mistake, and you're paying a lot later.
And yeah, when you have all kinds of problems, the idea behind the idea behind the pain to get the pain to get it -- and a sense of uncertain pain.
In fact, the IPCC report is not necessarily the worst scenario, and there are people in the rich world's worst of the IPCC and say, oke, oke, OK, and all of the IPCC and say, okay.
It should be that uncertainty, that insequence.
But my dream is that, if you can make it be able to make the CO2-limitations, then the CO2-limitations, and then the CO2-cooky, you can't even wouldn't even wouldn't even wouldn't even know that there was CO2 from the CO2 of the CO2 from the cheap.
CA: And that would be your response on the argument of Bjorn Lomborg, which is actually if you spend all this energy to solve the CO2--problem, is going to be that cost of all of the CO2 problem to try to lose the world of poverty.
It's a damn of aid resource of aid resources to spend money to spend money that we can do with it.
BG: Well, the actual expenditure for that R&amp;D part -- say that R&amp;D sharing the U.S. 10 billion more than now -- is not so dramatic than now -- is not so dramatic.
It doesn't have to be high by other things.
It walks really cases, and it is really a lot about this, and you can get a different people of opportunities that is uneconomic, when you try to finance something that is uneconomic.
And that is, most of course, is a waste of way.
And unless you very close to a solution and you just the teacher and you just the teacher and then it's very cheap.
And I think we have to try to be more things that the potention to be much less expensive to be much less expensive.
If it comes out of which you are starting to make the energy super expensive super expensive, then the rich that caused to be away.
I mean, we all could pay for five times, five times.
The disaster is that two billion.
And even Lomborg is changed.
His credo now, why is not talking about R&amp;D.
He's still bands, because of his earlier couching associated with the sckeptic camp, but he realized that a pretty camp, but he realized that a pretty camp, and this is the R&amp;D standpoint.
And so there's a red wire that I think I think of interest.
It's funny of a little bit of the R&amp;D shared --
CA: Well Bill, I suspect that I speak out of the most people here here as I say, I really hope that your wish. Thank you.
BG: Thank you.
Lake with you some months ago, I was a few months ago, when I wrote an article for the italian Wired.
I love the thesaurus to the these, when I write the these, but I was working on the stuff, and I thought I was never ready the word "innotion.
I read you the text.
"Invalide," pully: "shopping, helpleasures, crib, cririb, crap, crowd, crazy, craf, crochad, crazy, imppotent, crazy castreers, definite, and dependent, definitely ded, definitely disappotentially to be red, deted, definitched the number, extenside,
Antonice: healthy, strong capable."
I read this for a girlfriend and had to laughing because it was so ridiculous but follow after "geman" and I had to stop my voice, and I had to stop the emotional shock and the clap that these words, and the clap that caused these words that caused these words that caused these words are caused words that caused these words --
Good, of course, this is a good old remember,
I think this is an old pressure, now.
But it was a pressure beginning from the early '80s, when I started to develop a scene of myself and a picture of myself outside my family and the world to the other children and the world to the world around me.
I don't have to say that I was not to say that thank a thesaurus
And with this description seems as though I was born in a world in which someone as I was considered as someone where nothing is to say anything positive to say anything positive to the opportunities and avontors that I have in my life.
So I went to search for the 2009, online edition, and I expected a fail.
This is the became the became the became the text.
Jammer enough.
I think the last words of the last words under "Dist-straight antoni," "completely, completely and "celer."
It's not just about words.
It's about our opinion about people when we legs them with these words.
The values behind the words, and how we construct those values.
Our language affects us think and how we think and how we look at the world and how we look at other people.
A lot of old societies that the Greeks and the Romemember and the Rombs and believed that it was a fluence, because if you says something that is being true.
So what do we want to do is a person who is constrained or a person who issue is that powerful is?
And if we do something like this is a little bit of a person a person a person, a child, then we are reperhaps, a shadow about their force.
Don't we rather doors for them?
Someone who was my doctor was my doctor when I was child at the A.I. Dupont, Institute in Wilmington, Delaware.
He's called Dr. Pizzutillo.
Italian American American -- whose name was to speak to speak, so he was Dr. P. P.
Dr. P. P. always was very colory strikdles and had precisely the good institution to work with children to work with children to work with kids.
And I remember almost everything in the time I was in that disease, with exception of the physide-sessions.
I had to do a nearly number of repetanceing practical elastics -- different colors -- to build my beenspiled.
I hate that elastones more than everything.
I hate them, gave them too.
And as a five-year-old, I already for all with Dr. P. to come out under that practice, of course.
And one day, he came to a session -- exhaud, exhaud, and genadelivery -- and he said to me, "Wow. Aimee, you are such a strong, powerful girl, you know, I'm going to let you get this elastonish.
If you let me give you a hundred dollars I give you hundred dollar."
Of course, this was a tactical of Dr. P, to me to do the exercise that I didn't want to do with the engineering of the department, but what he would be the richest five-year--old girl of the department, but what he did was a new, far, far, far, far, far, far, following the experience.
Today, I'm going to ask me walk up in the corner his vision and his demand that I was a powerful girl, my self-imagined girl, my self-strong and atletical person to the future.
This is an example of how adults in power sposities can be able to wake the power of a child.
But in the last situations of that thesesaurus-textest our language to the reality that we all would like to see reality that we all would like to see themselves to the individual to see themselves.
Our language is following the changes in society, and many of that are reminded by technology.
With name, from medical point, my legs, my legs, both treatments for sleeping and couldness, and couldness, and care for ancient lights to their ability to describe so forth to their potentified by nature to their through the nature of nature -- to describe the constrainy of the worlds, in which people can described with the worlds, and they can described the world, and they can describe able to describe the world, with the world,
So maybe a lot of technology is now showing us a lot of truth has been an truth: that everybody has something extraordinary and something powerful has something more powerful and ability to address our best property to our best property to our best property of our property is a truth,
And the ability of the human being is interesting, because everybody wants to talk to me about constantly the foundation of conceasion, and I'm going to know anything. And I'm going to know anything.
And that sentenceed me that sentence, and it felt uncomfortable to answer the questions of people, and I began to understand why.
And the frame implicates that success of contradiction that means success or happiness that means you go again after a challenging experience, without a scrammaking experience, as though my successes in the life of the ability to have the ability to be the decline of a life with artists of a life with artists of a life with artifying and depends like my hands.
But in fact, we are changed by a challenging by a challenged by a challenge, or now, emotional or both.
And my argue is that a good thing.
Teches is not obstacle that we need to live up to live.
It's a part of our life.
I have tend to see it as my shadow.
Sometimes I see a lot of them, sometimes very few of them, but it's always in me.
I'm not going to sure the impact and the importance of someone elsewhere.
There is a contradiction and challenge in life, and it's all really and for everyone else, but the question is not before you have to get up with it.
So our responsibility is not simply to protect our neighborhood to protect it.
And we don't point our children as we don't feel that they're not able to fit that they're not able to address it.
There is a major difference and underestimate between the objective fact that I am an amputeed and the subjective society, and the subjective society.
In fact, the only real hands that I came up with the world that I came up with the world that was always that you could describe me with that definitions.
In our desire to protect our neighborhood facts to protect the kille facts of their medical medical quality of life, we need to make sure that we have to be the first stone that we don't really have the first stone.
And maybe the current way of looking at what piece is going to repair and how we need to repair it, someone more invalue than the pathology.
By not to go from the universe of a person won't recognize, not to recognize a new disease, we create a new disease that they may have already to.
In fact, we add the ordinary value for our society for our society.
So we have to look at the pathology to look at the scala of human abilities.
The very important thing is that there is a collaboration between that visible textoration and our best creative power.
It's not about that hard to devalue those hard or to devalue or to devalue or under the floor, but to discover that opportunities to discover that possibilities in the opportunities.
And perhaps the idea that I want you to get up to that you don't have to remember that you have to be sure that you have to open for it, but you have to be able to use the rooms, and maybe even though though to use it.
And if we see consistent and naturally consistent and useful, we might feel less by it.
And this year, we had the 200th birthday of Charles Darwin, and when he wrote 150 years ago about evolution Darwin the human character.
And they transly, it's not the strongest species that survive survived, but the most intelligent, but the kind of that change.
Conflict is the genesis of creation.
Another of Darwin's work we can work that the human ability to survive and to survive and driven by the mental gets through conflicts to transformation.
Again, transformation, transformation, which is our biggest ability.
And until we don't know what we aren't know what we aren't what we are.
And one of the case is that consciousness, which is that consciousness, a sense of our own force.
So we had to give ourselves.
We can imagine the contradiction as a couple of time.
Maybe we can see it as change.
Buy is changed that we haven't addressed adapted.
And I think the most important contradiction that we have given ourselves the understanding normality."
Who is there normal?
There is no normal.
There is just just just a normal. There is a normal. There is no normal.
And who should meet the poor graue person like "Do existed to exist?
I didn't think it's not a lot of it.
If we can get the paradigm to normality to normality of possibilities, or potention, or potention, or potention, something, then we can get the power of many more children, and they extend to share their rare and valuable to share and valuable to share with the community.
Anthropologists tell us that the only thing that we need people to have our group of our group of our group of our group of our group of our groups.
There are attention that Neanderthalers were 60,000 years ago, their parents and reminded up their parents and survive life servation and surviving these people of value for the community and survive these people who were not as a broken and useful as a broken and values; they were seeing as rare and valuable to be as rare and value.
A few years ago, I was on the market in the village that I grew up in the north piece in the north Pennsylvania, and I was forced about a tros.
It was summer. I had a short breed.
I heard a man behind me, "If that Aimee Mullins don't is."
I turned around, it was an older man. No idea who he was an idea who he was it.
I said, "Pardon, do we know each other? I can't remember that.
He said, "It's good possible that you don't know that we know each other.
And when we meet me come out of your mother."
Oh, that vent.
And of course, when the quarters --
This guy was doctor Kean, a guy that I only know through my mothers my mother's stories of that day, because I came to let my own birthday.
And my mother's mother's prentice was already on vahand, so the guy that was a strange for my parents.
And because I was born and without sheet, and a couple of tens, and a couple of tens, and a few tens, and a couple of the news.
And he said to me, "I had to go and say, "I had to walk your parents that you could never walk, and never have the movement freedom that other children and totally couldn't have life and totally independent life and done of the time you have a funny meet."
The particulars he told that he told him has collected collectures for my childhood time, or was collecting my childhood, or a spelling won in the second classroom in the second classroom with the pitched with the pursus of my sportive overwhile of my sportion and he used it in his integrated in his sporders, and he used it students for his students at Hahman.
Of course he called the x-factor, the potential of human will.
No progress can predict how powerful this can be as defining factor for the quality of someone.
Dokter Kean went on and he said, "I think that if it's not contradicted that, if it's not contrast of the constraining, and even with just constraination, a child of itself."
You see, doctor had been thinking has changed thinking
He understood that is a difference between the medical condition and what someone could do with it.
And in the course of time my thinking about, if you had asked me as 15-year-old, or I would have asked my art or I would have not been doubt for real legs -- I had not doubt.
I used to pursuch a normality.
And if you ask me that I don't know it yet.
That's because of the experiences that I haven't been with not despite the experiences that had with it.
Maybe this is changed because I'm expowered to people who have been exposed to people who have been excited for me then to those who wanted to be limited to those who wanted me and damage and cidump.
Look, you've only got one human that shows you the public of your own force, and there you go from there.
If you can give someone the key to his own force, the human spirit is so definitely if you can open it and in an essential moment a door for someone can open a door for someone can open them up.
You teach them door.
The exact meaning "education."
And that means that some inside is bringing inside of forward, potential to outside.
So again, which potential we want to bring outside.
There was a case-study in the '60s in England, where they went from gymnasia to school.
The hot called streaming "streaming the U.S. we call it.
They're distributes from 10, 7, 7, and so on.
The 10-students have a hard to get a hard to get a difficult teachers, etc.
For a three months of three months they gave 4-students had a 10, and they told them that they were 10, and they were intelligent.
On the end of the three months, they were at 10-level.
The heart rate sides of this study is that they were the 10-students that they were telling the 10-students that they were celebrator.
And that also happened to three months.
Those who were still in school, next to the people who had gotten down.
A crucial part of this research was that the teachers had been kept for the critic.
The teachers didn't knew that there was something that was gone that was refrigeration
And there was tell: these are the students with teens, this one with fours.
And so they were so treatment, and they treat them,
And I think the only real hands is a cnaked a cnaked a cnaked crazy doesn't know.
He doesn't see a beauty.
He's the natural curiosity is not to regulars that are not allowed to imagine.
If we can reinstead of the mind to keep hope to keep hope, to be able to see beauty and others, to see others, to be curious and fantasy and fantasy our power -- we actually use our force in the force of good.
And if a mind this qualities in the qualities to create new realities to be able to create new ways to be able to be able to be able to be able to be new ways to be there.
I want to close with a poem by a rearrative Persian poem Persic poem, Haf, far my friend Jacques Dembois told me told Jacques Dembois told me tell.
The poem is called "The god that just know."
"Every child knows God, not knowing the God of nearly not the God of do, but the God who only know four words that he repetes only know four words with me.
Thank you.
